A GREEDY stepmother and her millionaire friend were jailed yesterday for hiring a circus clown to carry out a double contract killing.

Sylvia Paterson, 56, offered to pay £40,000 for the murders of her stepson and his wife out of spite because they had inherited her husband's fortune.

Her business partner, socialite John Holmes, tried to fix the deal by putting her in touch with criminal Paul Thorlsog, who he believed to be an SAS trained assassin. But she and Holmes were arrested when Thorlsog, a conman and professional circus clown known as Banjo, double-crossed them and alerted police.

The pair, both wealthy members of the Cheshire set, were jailed for nine years after being found guilty on two counts of conspiracy to murder at the end of a six week trial.

Judge Sir Rhys Davies QC described their crimes as deliberate and calculated. He said that although Paterson was the driving force behind the enterprise, Holmes, a 43-year-old married businessman with three children, had been prepared to organise the murders and should serve an equal sentence.

Their intended victims, Paul Paterson, 38, and his wife Sarah, 35, said last night they were 'relieved' at the verdicts and hoped to return to a normal family life with their two young children.

Manchester Crown Court heard Sylvia Paterson had planned to have the couple murdered on the night of their wedding anniversary in April last year as an act of 'spite, ill-will and greed'. They had fallen out after she met and married Paul's wealthy father, 77-year-old widower Kenneth Paterson, in 1993.

Sylvia, who ran a property development company, resented the fact that her husband had signed over control of the family's multimillion-pound metals firm to his son without her knowledge.

She hoped that by making Paul Paterson and his wife 'disappear', the company, which had been in the family since 1872, would revert to her elderly husband and allow her access to its assets.

The jury heard both she and her accomplice Holmes enjoyed comfortable lives in luxury homes. Paterson drove a Mercedes convertible with the number plate CLASSY and owned two light aircraft. She had overcome a fear of flying by training to be a pilot.

Her two children from her first marriage were sent to £16,000-a-year public schools and her home was a £650,000 house in a fashionable suburb of Wilmslow. The glamorous divorcee had earned her fortune after lowly beginnings as the - daughter of a Shropshire farm labourer. She was raised by an aunt in a council home after being abandoned by her mother when she was seven.

She started as a nurse working alongside the pioneering doctors who developed the world's first test-tube baby but then went into business.

Paterson told friends her wealth derived from years spent working as PA to a mil lionaire Lebanese businessman and from property speculation after divorcing her first husband 13 years ago.

Holmes was educated at Prince Charles' former school Gordonstoun in Scotland. His dry cleaning firm generated a fortune estimated at £5million and allowed him to buy a £1.2million mansion in Hale Barns where he lived with his wife Christine and their three children.

The house was also where he kept his £500,000 art collection including a work by David Hockney. His reputation was shattered in 1998 when he was convicted of indecently assaulting a waitress at a fashionable Italian restaurant.

Paterson, who had known Holmes for 18 years, was in court to support him and broke down in tears as he was sentenced to two months in prison.

The pair had first met when she started taking her designer clothes to his specialist dry cleaners. They became close friends and business partners, making a series of joint investments in property.

The jury heard how Holmes had met Thorlsog, 49, while they both served time in prison and they had stayed in touch after being released.

Thorlsog boasted of being in the SAS and taking part in undercover surveillance operations against the IRA.

Holmes and Paterson had both denied conspiracy to murder, claiming they had hired Thorlsog to spy on Kenneth Paterson because he was having an affair.
