JOHN HOLMES'S place among the Cheshire Set was assured by his financial success and flamboyant nature.

The son of a respected local businessman, he attended Gordonstoun, Prince Charles's old school, in Scotland.

By the age of 40, he had acquired a £1.2 million house in Halebarnes, near Wilmslow. He had a £500,000 art collection, including a David Hockney original, and expensive cars with personalised number plates.

He was born at St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, in 1956, the youngest of three to parents Evelyn, and John, a former Desert Rat who served under Field Marshal Montgomery at El Alamein.

His sister Marie married Colin Bell, the former Manchester City and England footballer. Another sister, Jackie, lives in Bedford with her husband and three children.

Holmes left Gordoustoun with two A-levels and five 0-levels and set out to make a fortune through a plant hire company, taxi firm and property speculation.

He used money from the sale of his father's tyre business to Uniroyal to start Park Dry Cleaners, in Hale. Cheshire. It was recommended by Vogue magazine.

Holmes married his wife Christine nearly 20 years ago. They have a daughter Sophie, 17, who has a rare muscle disorder, and 11 year-old twins Jon and Camilla. He once estimated his fortune as between £2 million and £3 million, but said: 'I don't calculate it on a daily basis.'

Sylvia Paterson met him by chance when she called at his dry cleaning business as a customer shortly after her divorce in 1981.

They became friends and a joint venture, Paterson-Holmes, was set up as a property development company, acquiring properties in Hale, Cheshire, and Park Lane, London.

There were plans to buy Yesterdays nightclub in Alderley Edge, near the Cheshire penthouse of David and Victoria Beckham, and intentions to invest in a villa in France. She and Holmes attended charity functions, with his wife Christine, and their photographs regularly appeared in the local society magazine Cheshire Life.

His image as a happily married, respectable businessman was shattered in August 1998 when he was given a two-month jail sentence for indecently assaulting a 16-year-old waitress.

Mold Crown Court was told that the offence happened during a New Year's Eve celebration at the Est Est Est bistro in Knutsford, Cheshire.

Holmes and a colleague accompanied the girl on to the roof of the restaurant, and as the other man kissed the teenager, Holmes fondled her breasts and put his hand down the front of her trousers.
