IN THE so-called 'Cheshire Set', John Holmes and Sylvia Paterson stood out as 'not quite one of us'.

For all his charity fundraising, he was seen as brash and pretentious and she was thought impossibly vulgar.

Who, they would whisper, would invite Derek Hatton as guest of honour to his 40th birthday party and hold it at the Hilton Hotel next to Manchester Airport? Who would drive a soft-top Mercedes with the number plate CLASSY?

Of course, the people of Cheshire have been agog over each revelation of suburban skulduggery. fantasy and farce emerging daily from the courtroom during the seven-week trial. The verdict was eagerly awaited throughout the magic triangle between Hale, Knutsford and Wilmslow.

The couple's assiduous social climbing through the ranks of Cheshire's moneyed classes victims of their greed and social ambition. One Cheshire Set member said. 'There will be a thousand I-told-you-so's ringing around the county and lots of telephone calls to spread the delicious news with their friends.

Holmes, 44, a father of three with a solid marriage to Christine, worked hard to impress. By the late l990s he had built up a substantial property business and Park Dry, his drycleaning company in Hale. boasted pop stars among its clientele. He was a leading light of the Altrincham Chamber of Commerce and his charity fundraising ensured that he was regularly featured on she society pages of Cheshire Life, sometimes with a girl on each arm. He housed a £500,000 art collection in his £1.2 million house along Hale Barn's millionaire row, where his neighbours were Bryan Robson and Betty Driver, the Coronation Street actress.

His world began to fall apart in 1998, however, when he was sent to prison for two months for indecently assaulting a cocktail waitress. It was in jail on Merseyside that Holmes first met Paul Thorlsog, 49, alias Banjo the Clown, a petty criminal, fantasist and inveterate liar who claimed that he had been a stuntman in a James Bond film and an SAS colonel. He had been a parttime clown in a travelling circus. After his release Holmes began living his life as if he were a character in a thriller. He developed a cocaine habit, consorted with escort agency girls and began talking in criminal slang. With Banjo in tow, he was linked to an arson attack on a rival dry cleaner and a plot to frame another by planting drugs.

He adopted this gangsterish pose to help out Sylvia Paterson. 54. a friend and occasional business partner who had confided in him about the feud with her stepson and his wife. Paterson, once married sos soldier, had worked as a PA to a wealthy Lebanese businessman.  After returning to Britain she had set up her own property company. She met Ken Paterson, now 77, at a pub where she, recovering from the break-up of a nine-year relationship, was helping behind the bar.

When residents around Fletsand Road, at the sought-after end of Wilmslow, saw her move in on the older man, then in the process of passing control of his metals firm to his son, they immediately forecast trouble. After the marriage between the retired businessman and the younger woman, they had her tagged as a 'gold digger'. In court, she fiercely denied this charge. 'My house at that time was valued at £400,000,' she told the jury. 'I had my car. my number plate, my jewellery and my bungalow and my Bupa scheme and pension. He was at the time worth £297,000. I did not marry him for money.'
