A WEALTHY woman and her millionaire business partner were each jailed for nine years yesterday for conspiring to murder her stepson and his wife out of 'spite and revenge'.

Sylvia Paterson, 54, persuaded her business partner John Holmes, 44, to put an end to a feud with the stepson and his wife by hiring a human to make them 'disappear'. The would-be killer was a small time criminal who worked in a travelling circus under the stage name Banjo the Clown, Paterson was to pay him, through Holmes, £40,000 to carry out the double murder. The plot to kill Paul PaLerson, 38, and his wife, Sarah, 36, described by the judge at Manchester Crown Court as “deliberate and calculated”, fell apart when the clown went to the press then to the police, Sylvia Paterson had fallen out with her stepson and, his wife because she thought they had a hold over her husband. She and Holmes were leading members of the so-called Cheshire Set. The verdict sent a frisson of horror through the county's monied classes, famed for their conspicuous consumption and charity works.

The conspirators looked shaken as the jury delivered its verdict after two days' deliberation at the end of a seven-week trial. Paterson, of Wilmslow, Cheshire, and Holmes, of Hale Barns, Cheshire, denied conspiracy to murder. Judge Sir Rhys Davies, the Recorder of Manchester, told Paterson that she was the stronger character and driving force behind the plot. She was described by her lawyer as 'penniless and assetless'.

The judge told Holmes, a father of three who is well known for his charity fundraising: 'You have enjoyed a comfortable lifestyle and no one but yourself is responsible for its destruction.'

Anthony Gee, QC, for the prosecution, had told the court that Paterson had hatched the plot out of 'spite and a desire for revenge'. Holmes, he said, was inspired by money and greed.

Mrs Paterson had fallen out with her stepson and daughter-in-law after she married Kenneth Paterson, who ran a metals business. Park and Paterson, in Manchester. She came to resent the couple after her husband, now 77, handed over his house and the controlling interest in the business to them. She also blamed them for the deteriorating state of her marriage, exchanging a series of angry faxes.

She turned to Holmes, her friend and sometime business partner, for help in making them disappear. After seven years the couple would be declared dead and the business revert to her husband.

Holmes introduced her to Paul Thorlsog, 49, whom he had met during a two-month jail sentence for indecently assaulting a 16-year-old girl. Mr Gee said: 'He was offered large sums of money to carry out these dreadful crimes, but he never did so and had no intention of carrying out any such act, He pretended to be a hitman with access to arms and ammunition to make money out of the two defendants before disappearing.'

In January last year Holmes arranged for Sylvia Paterson to meet Mr Thorlsog. She told him that her stepson had caused a lot of problems and that she wanted him and his 'greedy' wife to go missing. They decided that the Patersons, who have two young children, were to be killed on April 27 last year as they celebrated their wedding anniversary.

During the trial the jury heard tapes in which Holmes, accompanied by escort girls, could be heard adopting gangster slang. He talked about 'hits', 'Ruud Gullits' - bullets - and being a 'pro of the dirtiest profession'. Two weeks before the planned murders, however, Mr Thorlsog began to extricate himself from the arrangement and contacted the police after approaching the News of the World. An undercover officer, known as Dan, posed as a second hitman to carry out secret recordings of Holmes and Paterson discussing the hit with Mr Thorisog.

Holmes, a self-made multi-millionaire, is a property dealer who runs a dry-cleaning business for Cheshire's well-off residents. Jonathan Goldberg, QC, for the defence, said that his stint in jail had disturbed the balance of his mind and he had taken to drink and cocaine. He described the offences as folie a deux for which he now faces social disgrace and ostracism. His family will be forced to sell their £1.2 million house and possessions to pay off his £600,000 debts, He said Christine, Mr Holmes's wife of 18 years, and their three children would also suffer.

Paul Paterson said through his solicitor: 'We are very relieved. The past year has been very difficult for us and our family. We knew nothing of the plot to kill us until the police came to inform us. We therefore put our future security in their hands.'
