A BUSINESSWOMAN who offered £40,000 to a circus clown called Banjo to set up the contract killing of her stepson and his wife was jailed for nine years yesterday.

Sylvia Paterson, 55, believed that she could add to her considerable wealth by reclaiming a stake in her 77-year-old husband's company.

She and her former millionaire business partner, John Holmes, 43, who also received a nine-year prison sentence, plotted to have Paul and Sarah Paterson killed on their wedding anniversary.

The plan, failed when Paul Thorlsog, 49, also known as Banjo the Clown, secretly recorded conversations, which he gave to the police.

An operation was mounted in which a detective posed as a soldier who would have acted as the hitman.

Paterson agreed to pay Mr Thorlsog £l0,000 in advance before she was arrested outside her £650,000 home in Wilmslow, Cheshire, last April.

She and Holmes, who acted as the go-between, were both convicted of two counts of conspiracy to murder at the end of a seven-week trial at Manchester Crown Court.

The jury returned unanimous verdicts after 13 hours of deliberations in which it cleared Holmes of perverting the course of justice for allegedly offering Mr Thorlsog £20,000 not to give evidence.

Holmes, of Halebarns, near Wilmslow, was ordered to pay £40,000 prosecution Costs. David Lane, QC, for Paterson, said that she had since sold her cottage and was 'now penniless and asset-less'.

Jailing them, Judge Sir Rhys Davis, QC, the Recorder of Manchester, said: "These were offences of very great seriousness indeed and there must be a substantial sentence of imprisonment.

'It is all too often in the normal run of human affairs that passions are involved, particularly in family relationships. There must be an act of discouragement against people turning to plans such as these to fulfil their desires.

He described Paterson as the stronger character and perhaps the driving force and Holmes as a 'rank amateur in his criminal activity.

Jonathan Goldberg, QC, for Holmes, said: 'The family now face the disgrace and social ostracisation within their circle. That will hit the innocent as well as the guilty and the family will be forced to downgrade and sell many possessions. This was a piece of motiveless madness.'

The court had heard how Paterson blamed her stepson and his wife for her second husband's decision to give them his £250,000 home and control of the family metal business.

She also held them responsible for the gradual deterioration of her marriage to Ken Paterson, who ultimately left her in March last year.

Paterson had complained in a fax message to Paul Paterson, 38, and his 35-year-old wife: 'Your actions have only resulted in bringing us closer together. Your father needs the love I can offer him. You offer him no love at all. Even before he met me you had no time for him or showed any love towards him.

'Your pretence of caring was only when you wanted money off him for holidays or school fees the crux of the matter is you are unable to control and manipulate him any more, as you have in the past. Why not emulate us by making love not war?'

Paul Paterson hired private detectives to look into his stepmother's past and bank accounts in the belief that her relationship with his father was financially motivated.

'The motive lying behind the conspiracy appears to have been spite, or a desire for revenge, with the hope of possible financial benefit on the part of Sylvia Paterson. said Anthony Gee, QC, prosecuting.

So far as Holmes is concerned, his motive appears to have been money and greed 	Holmes had met Mr Thorlsog while serving a two-month sentence in a Liverpool jail for indecent assault.

He claimed to have been in the SAS and Parachute Regiment when, in fact, he had worked as a clown in travelling circuses between terms in jail for dishonesty.

On his release from prison Paterson took up Holmes's suggestion that Mr Thorlsog should be used to keep her husband under surveillance.' because she believed that he was having an affair. It was then that the plot was hatched to kill her stepson and his Wife, with Paterson suggesting it should be done in such a way that the bodies could not be traced.

Mr Gee said: 'She wanted them killed and the bodies not found. She did not care how it was done and after seven years they would be declared dead and the firm go back to her husband.

'Sylvia agreed to pay £10000 up front. She gave Thorlsog information about Paul's movements and discussed making it look like suicide.

'There were discussions about arranging to make the deaths appear as if they had occurred during a car crash, or Sylvia Paterson suggested at one stage that her stepson should appear to have committed suicide.

'The price discussed with John Holmes was £20,000 for Paul Paterson and £20,000 for his wife. The discussions included where the victims might go for an anniversary meal and the route they would use.

When Mr Thorlsog became anxious about the plot, in which he had no intention of carrying out the killings, he went to the News of the World to help him to pass the details on the police. Detectives set up an operation in which an officer posed as a soldier named Dan who was introduced to Holmes as a 'substitute assassin'.

Dan offered to pull out - if the conspirators were getting jumpy but Holmes told him: 'We're happy,' before discussing the 'mop-up' after the killings.

On the date of the supposed killings, Mr Thorlsog telephoned Holmes and falsely told him. 'Listen, the job's done.'

Holmes: replied 'It is hard to explain at the moment isn't it?'
