A BUSINESSWOMAN and her wealthy partner were each jailed for nine years yesterday for plotting the hitman murder of her stepson and his wife in a feud over the family fortune. Sylvia Paterson and John Holmes, one time members of the exclusive Cheshire Set, hired a petty criminal and part-time circus clown named Banjo to make Paul and Sarah Paterson 'disappear'.

But Banjo went to the police and the couple were ensnared in an undercover trap.

Yesterday after a seven-week trial, the downfall of designer-suited Paterson, who drove a Mercedes with the number plate CLA55Y, was complete.

At Manchester Crown Court, Judge Sir Rhys Davies condemned her as the driving force behind the plot.

Paterson, 54, of Woodford Road, Wilmslow, Cheshire, acted out of 'ill-will and greed' shortly after the breakdown of her second marriage to Kenneth, 77. She burned with resentment for his son and daughter-in-law's wealth.

The final straw came when her husband handed a controlling interest In his metal business to 38-year-old Paul, giving him a personal fortune of £2million.

She turned to her partner, a millionaire property developer and former pupil of Prince Charles's school, Gordonstoun.

John Holmes, 43, of Carrwood, Halebarns, Cheshire, was a member of the local chambers of trade and commerce and an active supporter of charities, often being photographed with the great and good, including William Hague.

But he had a darker side. Known as a 'fixer', he had served four weeks in jail for indecent assault and met Banjo during that time. He had promised to find him work when he was released.

He introduced Paterson to Banjo and the plot began to take shape. Speaking exclusively to the Daily Mail last night, Banjo - real name Paul Thorlsog - told of his first meeting with Holmes. 'He said I would get £20,000 plus expenses for each hit. I didn't think he was serious. I thought I would get some money In my pocket and then disappear.' But when he was introduced to Paterson, he realised the pair were deadly serious.

'She asked me if I could I get shot of Paul Paterson and his wife.

She wanted me to make it look as if they had committed suicide.

Then she said she wanted it to look like a car accident, She kept changing her mind but she was sure she wanted it done.'

It was agreed the hit would take place as Paul and Sarah celebrated their 14th wedding anniversary on April 27 last year. But Thorlsog had no intention of carrying out the killing and went to the police 12 days before it was to have taken place. The clown, who is now in protective custody and claims Holmes has put a £250,000 contract on his life, said:

'For Sylvia it was all a matter of diabolical greed, She wanted to get her hands on the money. For John it was all a game. He liked to act like God and didn't want to look stupid in front of his criminal friends. He always had to be the big man.'

Detectives launched 'Operation Gatehouse' and an undercover officer posed as a second hitman and carried out secret recordings of the plotters. During the trial, Holmes, a cocaine addict, was heard talking about getting some 'Ruud Gullitts' - rhyming slang for bullets. He also boasted about being a 'pro' of the 'dirtiest profession' and talked about someone being sent to the 'warm place', which was taken to means grave.

The seeds of Paterson's downfall had been sown almost as soon as she met Kenneth seven years ago. He was 22 years her senior and, as head of the £5million Park Paterson metals business, a good prospect to a woman who grew up on a council estate.

She left comprehensive school at 16, married a soldier and spent many years abroad. After the marriage broke up, she returned to Britain to work briefly as a nurse and was in the team which helped deliver the world's first test-tube baby Louise Brown in 1979.

Later she set up a successful property firm and sent her daughter to Cheltenham Ladles College and her son to Stowe.

But her relationship with Kenneth Paterson, whose first wife had died a year earlier was always tainted by her envy for his only son, with whom he enjoyed a close relationship.

Her jealousy was matched by Paul's suspicion. At one stage he hired private detectives to discover more about the woman he believed had her eyes on the family fortune.

Relations continued to deteriorate to the point where Paul and Sarah were banned from the wed ding when the couple exchanged vows at a register office In October 1994.

Eventually the two sides were reduced to communicating by abusive faxes.

In one, Paul and Sarah said: 'As soon as you cause Ken any measure of unhappiness, we will be there to comfort and support him. We will never go away'.

On another occasion Sylvia Paterson accused her stepdaughter of trying to run her down in her Range Rover.

After the verdicts, Paul and Sarah said: 'We are very relieved. We knew nothing of the plot to kill us until the police came to inform us.

We would like to thank the police for their unstinting support and can now look forward to returning to a normal family life.' Kenneth Paterson has separated from his wife but turned up daily during the later stages of the trial to support her.
