A TYCOON jailed yesterday over the 'Banjo the clown' murder plot is a cocaine-snorting pervert who gets his kicks from sadistic sex with hookers, The Sun can reveal.

To his friends, millionaire socialite John Holmes was a tireless charity champion who once paid £3,600 for a painting by Prince Charles at a fund-raising auction.

But behind the benevolent facade lurked a vile brute who HIRED a villainous circus clown as a hitman, BOASTED of having underworld contacts and loved SPANKING vice girls.

And few of his influential pals from the wealthy 'Cheshire Set' were aware he had served time in jail for molesting a 16-year-old waitress.

One friend who knew him better than most said:

'He's completely ruthless and amoral. No one crossed him or stood in his way. He was determined to get what he wanted when he wanted it. That usually meant money and women. He loved sex.'

The pal added: 'He definitely had access to some really nasty characters who would not hesitate to do his dirty work for him.'

Yesterday Holmes, 43, and his close friend Sylvia Paterson. 54, were found guilty of conspiring to kill Paterson's stepson and his wife. Both were given nine years in prison.

The evil pair hatched the plot so gold-digger Paterson could get her hands on her second husband Ken's £5 million fortune. She discovered that Ken. 77, planned to leave his lucrative metals firm to son Paul, 38, and daughter-In-law Sarah. 35. So she enlisted property magnate Holmes to help her make the couple 'disappear.'

Holmes in turn recruited his ex-cellmate Paul Thorslog - a former travelling circus clown known as Banjo - as their hitman.

But 12 days before the hit Banjo panicked and went to the police. They sent in an undercover cop, who was introduced to the plotters by Banjo as a soldier more willing and able to carry out the contract.

Paterson and Holmes were trapped when the cop secretly taped them as they talked murder.

Manchester-born Holmes, an old boy of Prince Charles's school Gordonstoun, is married to attractive blonde Christine - sister of an ex-England soccer star Colin Bell.

YET he had a sordid affair with escort agency boss Audrey Clarke, shared high-class hookers with 49-year-old Banjo and was known as a playboy.

He appeared regularly in high-society magazines rubbing shoulders with the rich and famous at champagne charity functions.

YET he was taped boasting he was a 'pro' in the 'dirtiest profession' - and kept a picture of the Kray twins in his bathroom.

He lived in a £1.2 million mansion in Hale, Cheshire - near soccer boss Bryan Robson - and kept a £500,000 art collection including works by David Hockney and Salvador Dali.

YET in August 1998, he was given a two month jail sentence for groping the waitress during a party at a bistro in Knutsford and is on the sex offenders list.

He is the son of a Desert Rat war hero who has raised five-figure sums for charities including the Marie Curie Cancer trust.

YET he confessed in Court that he used cocaine.

He sent his three children to expensive private schools.

YET he talked to the cop about getting 'Ruud Guillits' - rhyming slang for bullets. And he chatted about someone being sent to a 'warm place' - a grave.

As well as his property empire, Holmes run an up-market drycleaning business in Altrincham.

The fiend estimated his fortune at between £2million and £3million - and loved to flaunt it. He and Christine paid a designer £10,000 to decorate one of their children's bedrooms like the cover of an Elton John album.

Holmes and Paterson, of Wilmslow, were sent down after a six-week trial at Manchester Crown Court.

They offered Banjo £40,000 to kill Paul and Sarah on their wedding anniversary, when they would definitely be together.

Judge Sir Rhys Davies QC called Paterson the 'driving force' behind the plot.

And he told Holmes: 'You have enjoyed a very comfortable lifestyle. There is no one but yourself to blame for its destruction.'

Paterson's QC David Lane said she maintained she was innocent.

Holmes's QC Jonathan Goldberg said: 'His family now faces the worst disgrace and social ostracism within their circle.'

Neither the tycoon's wife nor Paterson's husband showed any emotion at the verdict. But Paterson's son from her first marriage, Tyrell, 29, broke down in tears.
