A woman who tried to hire a part-time circus clown to murder her stepson was jailed for nine years yesterday for plotting to murder him and his wife.

Sylvia Paterson, 54, was consumed by jealousy of her stepson's wealth, Manchester crown court was told. She and her business partner John Holmes, 43 - also jailed for nine years - plotted to murder Paul Paterson and his wife Sarah on their wedding anniversary in April last year.

They hired petty criminal Paul Thorlsog, who also worked as a circus clown called Banjo, to carry out the contract killing, but he contacted police.

Sentencing them after a seven week trial, the judge, Sir Rhys Davies, said Sylvia Paterson was the driving force behind the plot.

'It is clear from what has transpired in this court that of the two of you, Sylvia Paterson, you are the stronger character and probably the driving force,' he said. 'You John Holmes, wealthy as you are, possessed of a certain charm you maybe, but you lack judgement.'

Undercover police officers taped Banjo's incriminating conversations with John Holmes. He was offered a total of £4O,000 to kill the couple. The court heard that Sylvia Paterson was 'not the sort of person to go around wanting to kill people'.

A partner in her own property firm, she drove a Mercedes with the registration plate CLASSY - she had planned to pay for the murders by selling the plate.

The defence claimed she had merely asked Thorlsogto carry out surveillance on her husband Kenneth, 77, whom she suspected was having an affair. She had paid Banjo a total of £1,15O for his work.

But she bitterly resented the wealth of her stepson and his wife - whom she dubbed greedy.

She was angry that her husband had transferred his controlling interest in the family metal business to his son without telling her. The relationship between stepson and stepmother became frosty. She blamed Mr Paterson for the deterioration in her marriage. She believed that if the murder plot had been successful, the controlling share in the family metal business would transfer back to her husband and she would ultimately benefit.

Holmes was a social climber educated at Gordonstoun and owned a dry cleaning business. He boasted that he was worth up to £3m.

He claimed Banjo had entrapped him in to the murder plot and said he began behaving like James Bond. Holmes claimed Banjo began hanging around his business dressed in a cowboy outfit or a clown's red nose.

He said he had been taken in by Banjo, who had been kind to him while they were in jail in Merseyside in 1998, after he was convicted of indecently assaulting a 16-year-old waitress at a New Year's Eve party.

Banjo had boasted of serving with the SAS and appearing as a stunt man in a James Bond film.

In reality he had been thrown out of the army and occasionally joined a travelling circus as Banjo the clown in between prison terms for petty crimes.

Paul and Sarah Paterson said in a joint statement: 'We are very relieved that this is now finally over - the last year has been very difficult for us and our family. We knew nothing of the plot to kill us until the police came to inform us. We can now look forward to returning to a normal family life.'
