SYLVIA Paterson came a long way from her humble origins to earn her place among the Cheshire Set.

Deserted by her mother, she was taken from her home in Whitchurch, Kent, at the age of seven and temporarily placed in a children's home when her father was no longer able to cope with her and her three sisters.

Eventually, three spinster aunts took her and sister Cynthia to live at their three-bedroom council house in Oldham, Greater Manchester. The girls went to state school, Sylvia leaving at 16 to join the civil service.

Three years later she married David Bardsley, a 20-year-old Army officer, and joined him in Aden when he was posted to the Middle East. They had a daughter Julie in 1964 and on their return to Britain bought a house in Royton, near Oldham. A son, Tyrell, followed in 1970.

In 1974 she qualified as a nurse and worked at Oldham and District Hospital alongside gynaecologist Patrick Steptoe, who pioneered the birth of the world's first test tube baby, Louise Brown.

But her wealth stemmed from 15 years she spent as a personal assistant to a rich Lebanese businessman and her shrewd property investments.

When her husband moved to Nigeria in 1976 to work as an engineer, she took a job working for AD Chami Import/Exports.

The job had a salary of £20,000 a year, plus a clothing allowance and school fees paid for the children in Britain.

Paterson travelled around the world for business meetings in New York, Geneva, Hong Kong. India and Singapore.

But her marriage ended in 1981, with Paterson claiming her husband had become jealous of her success and they divorced after returning to Britain. They sold their home in Royton, sharing the proceeds, and she bought a townhouse in the much sought-after town of Alderley Edge, Cheshire.

She continued working abroad, qualified as a pilot and in 1982 she began dating Colin Fray, to whom she gave flying lessons and helped train to become a private airline pilot.

Her property interests allowed her to refurbish her Cheshire home and turn it into a £650,000 showpiece, complete with automatic gates. As well as two light aircraft, she owned two Rolls Royces, two Range Rovers, a Mercedes and the number plate CLASSY.

When the relationship with Mr Fray ended, she took a Caribbean holiday. On her return she agreed to help out friends by occasionally working at the Unicorn pub in Wilmslow.

It was at the Unicorn she met Ken Paterson, a wealthy factory owner. His wife Joan had died the previous year and although he was in his early 70s he was 'a hale and hearty man, fit and good looking'.

Mr Paterson, now 77, ran Park and Paterson Ltd. Manchester, which had been in his family since 1872. It had a £3 million turnover from manufacturing ferrous metals.

His son Paul, 38, who has a wife Sarah, 35, and children Thomas, eight, and Isobel, two, was a director of the company before taking it over three years ago. Paul, Sarah and Thomas became the only shareholders after Mr Paterson and his late wife gave them their 43,000 shares.

Paul Paterson had always been close to his father but the relationship changed when Sylvia moved in.

However, Mr Paterson proposed to her after a 10-day holiday in Gran Canaria in 1994 and they married that year at Macclesfield Register Office.

Even before then, Paul and Sarah suspected her motives and employed private detectives to investigate her.

After the wedding, contact dwindled between father and son with letters and faxes becoming the main form of communication. Out of the bitterness and envy she felt for her stepson came the desperate plan to murder both him and his wife.


