A WEALTHY businesswoman who hired a circus clown named Banjo to murder her stepson and his wife was jailed for nine years yesterday.

Greedy Sylvia Paterson, 54, hatched the bizarre plot with her millionaire business partner, socialite John Holmes. He was also given nine years.

Sentencing the pair at Manchester Crown Court, the judge, Sir Rhys Davies, described the plot as 'deliberate and calculated.'

Mother-of-two Paterson and Holmes, 43, were found guilty of conspiring to murder Paterson's 38-year-old stepson Paul and his wife Sarah, 35.

Holmes was cleared of trying to pervert the course of justice. But he was ordered to pay £40,000 towards the £135,000 costs of the seven-week trial.

Paterson, from Bramhall, Cheshire was bitter because her 77-year-old husband Ken had handed over his metal business to his son without telling her.

Holmes - who ran a drycleaning business - acted as 'fixer' and introduced Paterson to a man he had met in prison, 49-year-old Paul Thorlsog.

But Thorlsog, who worked part-time as Banjo the clown, never intended to kill the couple and went to the police.

SYLVIA PATERSON, an ex-nurse, made a fortune in the 15 years she spent as assistant to a millionaire Lebanese businessman, and from shrewd property investments.

She lived in a £650,000 mansion, owned and flew two light aircraft and had a string of luxurious cars, including a Mercedes with the registration number CLASSY.

The divorced businesswoman married widowed Ken Paterson in 1994.

Now, her barrister said yesterday, she is penniless and has been living in rented accommodation.

BANJO THORLSOG was born Paul McMahn in Liverpool. He served in the British Army and French Foreign Legion and boasted of a glamorous life as an officer and James Bond actor. In reality, he was a petty crook with a long criminal record.

JOHN HOLMES lived in a £1.2 million home in Cheshire, and had a £500,000 art collection.

But his glittering world collapsed in 1998 when he was jailed for indecently assaulting a 16-year-old waitress.

Holmes, married with three children, now faces huge debts and his reputation is in ruins.
