HIS house Party guests had overstayed their welcome and, as Noel Edmonds puts up the shutters on his career with the BBC, there will be no shortage of enemies chortling that his abrupt exit from Crinkley Bottom is the most humiliating Gotcha! he has ever awarded himself.

They will say he had lost the plot of what constitutes Saturday night family entertainment.

All the annoying paraphernalia that goes with him - including the self-satisfied smirks and gnomic asides, the violent hand-knits, the gross sidekicks such as Mr Blobby, the endless manipulation of B-list celebrities for cheap laughs - will be cited as contributions to what may be seen as his downfall. But Edmonds, whose private deals with the BBC made him a millionaire, excited the jealousy of those who didn't think of it first.

Analyse what went into Noel's House Party in the days before his 15million viewers shrank by half, amid repeated complaints by Edmonds that the programme was being 'cobbled together' around him by those who didn't share his vision of good-humoured fun, and it is clear his original concept was in its way a work of genius.

Nobody else - not even Brucie at his best - could have held together a show that seemed simplicity itself but, when launched in 1992, was technically the most complex ever attempted. The mock manor house Crinkley Bottom sent up his own aspirations and personal acquisitions of a manor house near Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire followed by an estate in Devon. 

The host had to perform live, both scripted and ad lib, while interacting with a stream of guests and an enthusiastic studio audience, introducing filmed inserts, making numerous live link-ups with viewers at home and abroad, fending off the intrusive bungler Mr Blobby - a pink Latex figure twice his size - dunking victims in 'gunge' tanks and bringing out the best in tongue-tied children. And all at break-neck pace.

Even the much-vaunted Chris Evans, who shamelessly attempted to lift the concept of alternating interaction with professionals and viewers, never had to stitch so many disparate elements together for 50 minutes of peak-time entertainment. Call it the ultimate trivial pursuit of a winning format if you will, but you have to admire the consummate professionalism  of the man in charge. That, without a doubt, was Edmonds. He even owned rights to its spin-off, the Mr Blobby theme park at Cricket St Thomas in Somerset.

A CLEVER and innovative force in radio and television since the Sixties, he has always been the man in control of his own destiny. Even as a teenager he never sat back and waited for events to overtake him. With ten 0-levels and four A-levels, his place at university was assured when he blew his savings on a bedroom studio and made an audition tape that secured his first job as a DJ. At that time, Radio Luxembourg was the only radio station legally broadcasting non-stop pop to Britain.

He immediately introduced a style of running gags between records, bringing the staid station in line with Tony Blackburn's slick delivery on Radio Caroline. When the BBC launched Radio 1 to squeeze out the pirates, both launched their own shows - but it was Edmonds who saw it as a vehicle for a career as an all-round entertainer.

In 1973, he took over Kenny Everett's breakfast show on Radio 1 and had eight million listeners by the time he quit five years later, smashing his alarm clock with a hammer in celebration. By then he had made his first TV appearance, compering Top of the Pops, and moved smoothly from radio to television to host the ground-breaking two-hour Multi-Coloured Swap Shop.

Before Swap Shop, parents enjoyed intimate moments on Saturday mornings while children listened to the radio or went to Saturday morning cinema. But with the phone-in Show taking 1,200 calls a week, Edmonds - by then sporting long hair and Seventies flares soon had eight million viewers (and a farm and a helicopter).

After six years he again quit while he was ahead, leaving such a void that the show was scrapped  although the format has influenced almost every BBC1 Saturday morning show since. Once again, the dream vehicle appeared to carry Edmonds' talents. The Late Late Breakfast Show was an immediate Saturday teatime hit, challenging viewers to perform death-defying feats.

ITS run ended when contestant Michael Lush was killed in rehearsals for a stunt, amid claims of gross negligence. Edmonds had the good sense to acknowledge his feelings of responsibility for the tragedy. By 1989 when he married his second wife Helen and moved to his £2.3million home in Devon, he was the highly-paid star of the Noel Edmonds Saturday Roadshow, his new BBC1 baby. Clearly a person with a low boredom threshold, he was soon looking for new challenges.

The first House Party went out in November 1991, winning him his first Bafta - the television Oscar - for Best Light Entertainment Programme in 1993. Weeks later, he signed the first multi-million pound contract with the BBC, a record-breaking four-year £10million 'golden handcuffs' deal for himself and his production company.

When House Party's creation Mr Blobby earned £8million, part of the deal was that the BBC and Edmonds each collected four per cent of the trade price of the Blobby spin-offs - £500,000 each.

EDMONDS'S business acumen clearly matched his performing talents. Like the cars that were his hobby, he was on a fast track to the megabucks and personal glory. On November 19 1994, the National Lottery was launched on television by Edmonds as he celebrated 25 years with the BBC. He had become a national institution. At the time his TV quiz show Telly Addicts and Noel's House Party dominated light entertainment and he was the obvious choice to front the nation's frivolous foray into high-rolling.

People imagined his 'luck' might rub off on them, but he had always made his own luck. Some might say Noel Edmonds deserts his flagships before they can go down with him. A fairer assessment might be that he wants to leave us laughing as he goes. Whatever he does next, it will be original, challenging and good, honest family fun.