CATHOLIC priest Alex Walker sexually assaulted a teenage cancer victim after she had her leg amputated - and later raped her, a court heard yesterday.

He fondled her breasts through her nightie while she was still very weak in hospital, it was claimed. And he eventually forced her to have sex with him at her home.

Married Walker, 45, who has since left the priesthood and is a father of two, denies the charges between January and July 1983. Walker, who now lives in Carnforth in Lancashire, grossly misused his position of trust, Preston Crown Court was told.

Anthony Morris QC, prosecuting, said the victim was a 17-year-old A-level student. He was 10 years her senior and chaplain to her school in Lancashire. She was as a virgin, he said, adding: "To her, her priest was on a pedestal ... her route to God, and his words would be the words of God."

Walker abused this trust at a time when the teenager was at her most vulnerable, Mr Morris went on. She had a suspected malignant tumour removed from her left thigh bone - but was then told the leg had to be amputated or she would die. There was a risk of secondary tumours. She was frightened chemotherapy might leave her infertile.

And she confided all her fears to Walker, Mr Morris said. "It was in the immediate aftermath of her operation, when she was in great pain and at her most emotionally vulnerable ... that this defendant started to interfere with her and indecently assaulted her in a number of different ways. He did so while visiting her in hospital under the pretext of comforting her in his capacity of her priest."

Mr Morris said the student was receiving morphine injections. Walker went to see her after visiting hours one night - and when he left, kissed her on her lips and tried to put his tongue in her mouth.

Mr Morris told the court: "He told her he was a priest who could love her in a different way"

He took the nightie-clad teenager in a wheelchair so she could look out of a window - then kissed her neck from behind and clasped her breasts through the nightie.

A week later, he fondled her breasts while she was in her hospital room. The teenager was discharged in January and sent to another hospital for a course of chemotherapy.

She was a weekday in-patient, and went home at weekends - but the assaults continued. The student felt guilty a feeling which Walker reinforced by dubbing her 'a temptress'. The court heard she was becoming increasingly concerned, then the priest forced her to give him oral sex.

Not long after that incident she took an overdose of sleeping tablets.

She began her A-levels and the defendant called her and asked her to come to see him at the presbytery He promised nothing would happen, the court heard.

But when she arrived her leg was sore and he said she could lie down. Ten minutes later he came into the room and forced her to have sex, the court heard.

The defendant then looked at his watch. "He said they had not had sex because it had not lasted long enough," Mr Morris told the court.

Walker then raped the teenager again after a school dance, Mr Morris said. "He gave her a strong drink and started going on about his celibacy and then had sex with her."

The trial continues.



