Mohamed Al Fayed's former security chief branded his ex-employer the 'biggest crook in town' yesterday, at the libel action brought by the former MP, Neil Hamilton.

Brian Dodd told how the Harrods owner 'paid off' up to 15 people a week, and deployed strong-arm tactics against those he wanted to evict from his central London apartment block.

Amid extraordinary scenes at the high court in London, Mr Dodd repeatedly spoke over barristers' questions, claiming to have been insulted by Mr Fayed's assertion in evidence that he had been sacked for gross misconduct.

'I am tainted with the same brush as Neil Hamilton. I have got to leave this court a tainted man by Mr Fayed, who's the biggest bloody crook in this town.'

His comments prompted angry exchanges with George Carman QC, for Mr Fayed. When the barrister intervened, Mr Dodd replied: 'Hang on, your honour, or sir, or whatever I call you, Mr Carman.'

Later, he told the QC: 'Don't throw everything at me, Mr Carman ... you assume lots of things, I've heard you.' The performance ended when Mr Justice Morland - who had joined the rest of the court in laughing at the outbursts - ordered the witness to leave, before abruptly adjourning the hearing.

As the jury was led out of court 13, Mr Dodd shouted across to an ashen-faced Mr Hamilton: 'I apologise, I do not think I have done your case any good.'

Mr Hamilton is suing Mr Fayed over allegations in a 1997 Channel 4 documentary that he had corruptly demanded and accepted~ cash and hospitality in return for performing parliamentary services for Harrods.

Mr Fayed, who was not in court yesterday, denies libel and maintains his allegations were true.

Mr Dodd, 62, a former SAS officer, worked for Mr Fayed from March, 1984, until August, 1986, when, he claims, he left of his own accord. As the security manager of Mr Fayed's Park Lane apartments, he ordered his staff to keep a book in which names and times were recorded of people who arrived to pick up envelopes and packages. Knowing some of the envelopes contained cash, he told the jury, he wanted his staff to 'cover themselves.'

'There were up to 15 a week, to people Fayed was paying off. There was also a book for anyone who went to see Mr Al Fayed - Labour MPs, Tory MPs and a whole load of lords.' Mr Fayed's brother, Ali, 'went mad' when he found out about the book. 'I said that I needed to know who is in the building in case there is a fire. I said you can call them Donald Duck One and Donald Duck Two, but I will have the names in my book or I will not do my job.'

It was agreed that names would be recorded, and the book 'taken upstairs' at the end of the day.

Mr Dodd alleged that Mr Fayed's secretaries, Alison Bozek and Iris Bond - both of whom earlier told how they saw Mr Fayed stuff envelopes with cash for Mr Hamilton - shredded pages from the book. 'Each day the page was ripped out, it was not allowed to be seen.'

Those were not the only records destroyed on the orders of Mr Fayed. 'In 1986, I burned 40 sacks of documents from Mr Fayed's office that he wanted to hide - 40, it took me four hours, on a bonfire'

Mr Dodd, who fiercely denied that he was guilty of criminal behaviour when he worked for Mr Fayed, told how the- Harrods owner had wanted one of the Park Lane tenants removed from his flat. 'Mr Fayed told me to throw his body on an effing skip. He said: "You kill him, you do what you effing like with him, get him out of that flat"'

Under questioning from Mr Carman, he agreed that he went into the flat with another man, and filled four suitcases with documents which they later burned. They left the tenant a note on a cornflakes box, which read: 'We've missed you this time. We won't miss you next time.' Mr Dodd: 'It was a damn sight less than what he [Fayed] wanted me to do to him.'

Mr Dodd accepted he had kept fictitious records about movements at Park Lane. On one occasion, he recorded that two American tenants, whom he suspected of being prostitutes, brought five or six men home at night 'as if they were running a brothel'. Admitting the entries were false, he said: 'There were many fictitious books at Park Lane.'

The case was adjourned until tomorrow, and the jury will retire to consider its verdict on Monday.



