THE LIBEL action between Neil Hamilton and Mohamed Al Fayed was halted amid uproar at the High Court yesterday after the multi-millionaire owner of Harrods was branded 'the biggest crook in town' by his former head of security.

The jury was hastily ushered out and the judge, Mr Justice Morland, also left after failing to prevent Brian Dodd, a former paratrooper and Special Air Service soldier, from shouting from the witness box, where he had been called to give evidence on behalf of the former MP for Tatton. Mr Dodd, in a dark grey suit and regimental tie, plaintively cried out in the emptying courtroom: 'I'm sorry Mr Hamilton, I don't think I've done your cause much good.'

Earlier, he said that after watching Mr Hamilton's wife, Christine, on television news he felt '... tainted by the same brush as Neil Hamilton'. He went on: 'I have got to leave this court a tainted man by Mr Fayed, who's the biggest bloody crook in this town.'

The latest day of evidence lived up to all the colourful theatre that had gone before. Mr Dodd, sitting ramrod straight, repeatedly interrupted, not just Mr Fayed's QC, George Carman, but Desmond Browne, the counsel for Mr Hamilton.

Mr Hamilton, a former minister for corporate affairs under John Major, is suing Mr Fayed over allegations that he accepted cash, gifts and holidays in return for asking questions in the Commons favourable to the owner of Harrods.

Mr Dodd, the holder of the Military Medal, was in charge of security at Mr Fayed's offices and apartments in Park Lane, central London. The staff included Philip Bromfield, a doorman, who claimed that he had handed over two envelopes to Mr Hamilton. Mr Dodd told the jury that he had made Mr Bromfield and others keep a book in which to enter the names and times when these envelopes were collected, so as to 'cover themselves'.

He said: 'There were up to 15 people a week who he [Mr Fayed] was paying off.' There was also a separate book for anyone who went to see Mr Fayed and this included the names of 'Labour MPs, Tory MPs and a whole load of lords'.

Mr Dodd claimed that Alison Bozek and Iris Bond, Mr Fayed's secretaries who appeared as his witnesses, had shredded pages from the book the security staff kept.

The jury is expected to retire on Monday at the end of legal arguments, closing speeches and summing up by the judge, to consider its verdict.