MOHAMED AL FAYED is the 'biggest crook in town', the Harrods owner's former head of security told the High Court yesterday.

During a highly charged day in the 'cash for questions' libel trial, Brian Dodd, a former SAS soldier, said that he had been 'tainted' with the same brush as Neil Hamilton, the former Tory minister who is suing Mr Al Fayed.

As he finished giving evidence, Mr Dodd, 62, became so angry that Mr Justice Morland ordered him to leave the witness box. As the jury was ushered out of court, Mr Dodd shouted: 'I apologise, Mr Hamilton. I do not think I have done your case any good.'

Earlier the court was told that Mr Dodd worked for Mr Al Fayed from March 1984 until August 1986 when, according to the Harrods chairman, he was sacked for gross misconduct, a charge Mr Dodd denied. He told the court that on Monday he had watched Christine Hamilton, the former MP's wife who had given evidence that day, on the evening news. 'God knows how I felt.. . I am tainted with the same brush as Neil HaMilton.' He added: 'I have got to leave this court tainted by Mr Fayed, who's the biggest bloody crook in town.'

Mr Hamilton is suing Mr Al Fayed over allegations that he received cash and gifts for asking questions in the Commons on Harrods's behalf. Mr Al Fayed denies libel and pleads justification.

Mr Dodd, who said he 'would have gone to hell and back' for Mr Al Fayed while he worked for him, was in charge of security at the Harrods chairman's Park Lane offices and apartments. Mr Dodd said that he made the staff there record the names and times when envelopes of cash were collected. 'There were up to 15 a week to people he [Mr Al Fayed] was paying off,' he said. There was also another book for anyone who went to see Mr Al Fayed - 'Labour MPs, Tory MPs and a whole lot of Lords'.

Mr Dodd said that Mr Al Fayed's secretaries shredded pages from the book he had kept. 'It's my knowledge, because each day the page was ripped out, it was not allowed to be seen,' he said. 'In 1986, I burnt 40 sacks of documents from Mr Fayed's office that he wanted to hide.'

Mr Dodd, who admitted under questioning from George Carman, QC, for Mr Al Fayed, to three speeding tickets and having been involved with the police over a domestic incident with his brother, denied that he was guilty of 'criminal' behaviour while working at Harrods.

Mr Carman asked him about breaking into a flat at the Park Lane apartment block. Mr Dodd answered that Mr Al Fayed had told him to throw one of the Park Lane tenants 'on an effing skip'.

As the evidence concluded, the jury was sent away until Thursday, when counsels will make their closing speeches.

