Lawyers for the Moors murderer Myra Hindley accused the home secretary, Jack Straw, of subjecting her to 'inhuman and degrading punishment' as she took her plea for freedom to Britain's highest court yesterday.

The decision that 'life must mean life' for someone imprisoned at the age of 23 singled her out for 'uniquely harsh treatment' her QC, Edward Fitzgerald, told five law lords. It meant she could spend 60 or 70 years in jail, he said.

Hindley, now 57, who was convicted with Ian Brady in 1966 of the murders of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, and Edward Evans, 17, was the only offender subject to a 'whole-life tariff' - meaning she could expect to die in prison - who was not the actual killer, said Mr Fitzgerald.

Yet she was a 'reformed' person who presented no danger to society and had been recommended by the parole board for transfer to an open prison.

Mr Fitzgerald told Lords Browne-Wilkinson, Nicholls, Steyn, Hutton and Hobhouse that Hindley was now in her 35th year of imprisonment. 'There is no dispute that her crimes were of the utmost gravity and deserving of punishment. But there is uncontradictable evidence that she has reformed and presents no danger to society.'

Hindley is contesting an appeal court ruling in 1998 upholding the lawfulness of life detention for the worst murderers, without hope of parole. The courts have held that the policy is lawful as long as it allows for release if the prisoner has made exceptional progress in custody. Hindley's lawyers have asked Mr Straw to release her on this ground but he has refused to take a decision until after the law lords give their judgment in a few weeks time. The hearing is expected to take four days.

Mr Fitzgerald said his challenge was to the legality of whole-life tariffs in general, as well as to the particular sentence imposed on Hindley.

Parliament had given no authority for life detention based solely on the gravity of the crime, though it had intended that prisoners who were dangerous could be detained for life, he said.

At the most it provided for a recommendation of minimum tariffs and did not contemplate a category of prisoner for whom release from prison on licence could not be contemplated, except in 'exceptional circumstances'.

When Hindley was sentenced in 1966, the trial judge made no recommendation as to how long she should serve, though Lord Lane, lord chief justice, later recommended a minimum of 25 years. In 1988 whole-life tariffs were introduced, and that tariff was imposed on Hindley in 1990.

In 1987 Brady and Hindley had confessed to involvement in the further murders of Pauline Reade and Keith Bennett, which had contributed to her receiving the whole-life tariff. However, Mr Fitzgerald said police now accepted that Hindley was corrupted by Brady, which was a mitigating factor rather than grounds for increasing the penalty.



