MYRA HINDLEY began the final stage yesterday of her campaign under British law to gain freedom, telling the House of Lords that she was a reformed person who presented no danger to society.

Her counsel, Edward Fitzgerald, QC, said that the Moors murderer was the victim of 'a basic injustice', having been unlawfully condemned to die in prison with no hope of parole.

Hindley, 57, is in her 35th year in prison after being convicted in May 1966 of the murders of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, and Edward Evans, 17.

Mr Fitzgerald told five law lords: 'There is no dispute that her crimes were of the utmost gravity and deserving of punishment. But there is uncontradictable evidence that she has reformed and presents no danger to society.'

Hindley's case, which is expected to last four days, is against a Court of Appeal ruling in 1998 that upheld the decision of successive Home Secretaries that her life sentence 'must mean life'.

Mr Fitzgerald said that Hindley had a case for release and that the Parole Board had confirmed it by recommending her move to an open prison.

But, he added, the case for her release could not be properly put while she was still subject to a 'whole-life' tariff. He told Lord Browne-Wilkinson, sitting with Lords Nicholls of Birkenhead, Steyn, Hutton and Hobhouse of Woodborough, that the challenge was to the legality of whole-life tariffs in general as well as to the particular sentence imposed on Hindley.

Parliament had given no express authority for creating a whole-life tariff category of punishment and neither was there an implied authority, Mr Fitzgerald said. 'We say it is positively to the contrary of Parliament's intent. It is our submission that Parliament did not intend such a policy to be adopted whereby lifelong tariffs were pre-determined on the grounds of gravity of the crime alone.'

If her House of Lords plea fails, Hindley will have exhausted all avenues under domestic law. But her lawyers could still explore the possibility of challenges under European human rights legislation.



