The man stabbed in an alleged road rage murder stared at his bloody hands, staggered backwards and collapsed as Kenneth Noye calmly got back into his car and drove away, a witness told the Old Bailey yesterday.

Heather Titley said she saw Stephen Cameron, 21, grab the collar of Noye's shirt and scuffle with him at the Swanley interchange of the M25 in May, 1996. 'They were struggling with each other. The next thing I can remember is the younger of the two men appeared to stagger. He looked at his hands and they were covered in blood. He put his hands out in front of him and looked shocked and confused ... the young man went to the front of the van and fell down.' Mrs Titley added: 'It was apparent he had been severely wounded. The older man went back to his vehicle, got in and drove away. It did not screech away. It just drove away.' 

Mrs Titley was giving evidence yesterday on the third day of the trial of Noye, 52, of West Kingsdown, Kent. 

He denies murdering Mr Cameron, saying he stabbed him in self-defence. The fight allegedly started when Noye confronted Mr Cameron, the passenger in a van driven by Danielle Cable, his fiancee. Mrs Titley's husband Stephen said Mr Cameron seemed to pursue Noye when the 'very violent' fight which followed broke up.

In a statement to police, Mr Titley said: 'The younger man came up behind the older one and grabbed at his left shoulder with his right hand and then punched the older man with his left hand. I believe the punch landed on the jaw. They then exchanged a couple of blows in quick succession?'

Two other witnesses gave different accounts of the fight which led to Mr Cameron being stabbed. Helen Merral told the jury that Mr Cameron had thrown the first punch. 'The first thing I saw, it is horrible to say, as the young boy is not here now, but the younger man hit the older one. But I don't know, it was a fight and it was not all on one side. I just the younger man hit the older man in the face. The older man broke away and began to walk away. I saw the younger man go up as if he was going to carry on.'

Stephen Darling, however said Noye landed the first blow, hitting Mr Cameron in the face with his right fist. 'That was definitely the first action of violence when they met. The younger fellow was then getting the better of the older one. I saw him throw punches and kicking. The older bloke was backing off. I thought the older fellow got out to give the young one a clout, then the young one got the better of it. I thought 'Fair enough, he deserves it'.'

The trial continues today.



