WITNESSES gave conflicting reports yesterday over who threw the first punch during the M25 'road rage' incident that ended in the fatal stabbing of Stephen Cameron.

Kenneth Noye, 52, who claims that he killed Mr Cameron in self-defence, landed the first blow during the fight at the Swanley interchange in Kent four years ago, one witness told the Old Bailey yesterday. Another said that Mr Cameron threw the first punch.

Stephen Darling was one of the witnesses closest to the fight between Mr Noye and Mr Cameron, 21, and he described how the older man, driving a Land Rover Discovery, had pulled up at an angle in front of the van driven by the younger man's girlfriend. Mr Noye, who does not dispute that he was involved, was seen to climb out and slam his door "as if he was uptight", Mr Darling told the jury.

Mr Darling, who had stopped at the traffic lights alongside Mr Noye's car, said the two men met in the gap between their two vehicles. "I saw the older man throw a punch," he said. "He punched the younger fellow in the face. The younger man was getting the better of the older man. I saw him throwing punches and kicking and, the older man was backing off."

Mr Darling then drove away before the end of the fight in which Mr Noye is alleged to have stabbed Mr Cameron through the heart.

Under cross-examination from Stephen Batten, QC, for the defence, Mr Darling said he was sure that Mr Noye had thrown the first punch. However, another witness, Helen Merrall, who drove away before the end of the fight, said she believed that it was Mr Cameron who had landed the first punch. She said that he appeared "angry and fiery".

She said: "I saw people getting out of a car and a little van. You could tell by their body language that they were angry and there was some sort of exchange about to happen. The younger man was getting the better of the two. The first thing I saw - it is horrible to say, as the young boy is not here now - but the younger man hit the older one. But I don't know, it was a fight and it was not all on one side. The older man broke away and began to walk away. I saw the younger man go up as if he was going to carry on. Then I was aware of a female voice shouting 'stop it'."

Another witness, Heather Titley, described how Mr Cameron, an electrician, was killed. "The younger of the two appeared to stagger and look down at his hands and they were covered in blood. He put his hands out and looked shocked and confused," she said.

Mr Noye, from Sevenoaks, denies murdering Mr Cameron. 

The trial continues.



