AN off-duty policeman told yesterday how he was just moments away from trying to break up the fight in which Stephen Cameron was stabbed to death by Kenneth Noye.

Sergeant Gary Clarke took the decision to intervene when he spotted the clash on an M25 sliproad and suspected Noye was being injured. But before he could do anything Noye got into his Land Rover Discovery and sped away. 'I thought the older man was hurt,' he told the Old Bailey. 'I got the door open and had taken off my seat-belt and I was halfway out of the door. Then I saw the vehicle driving off.'

It was not until some hours later that he discovered he had witnessed the confrontation in which Stephen, 21, died. Noye, 52, is charged with his murder.

Sergeant Clarke said he was on his way to a chess match in May 1996, when his companion, Anthony Stebbings, pulled up at lights on the slip-road in Swanley, Kent. The officer described how he saw Noye and Stephen rowing with each other in the road. 'From arguing, they went to blows,' said Sergeant Clarke. 'They were kicking and punching each other. The older man appeared to be coming off worst.

'The initial exchanges were even. But the younger man was kicking the older man three or four times in the groin area. The older man was getting out of puff. He was losing out. The younger man was fitter. I had the door open but I thought the exchange had finished when the car drove off.'

Noye, of Sevenoaks, Kent, admits stabbing Stephen twice in the chest but denies murder, claiming that he acted in self-defence.

Another witness, Mary Parish, told the jury how she saw two men fighting between the Land Rover and Stephen's red rascal van. She said she saw Stephen holding his stomach and heard him say to his girl. friend, 17-year-old Danielle Cable: 'I've been stabbed.' Mrs Parish added: 'He lifted up his T-shirt and he was covered in blood. I jumped out and tried to help the girl who was screaming hysterically'

The jury heard that there was some conflict between witnesses as to who struck the first blow. Helen Merral said Stephen appeared 'angry and fiery' as he confronted Noye. 'They started to fight and it looked as if the older man was trying to defend himself,' she said. 'At one point, it seemed to stop and the older man walked away.  It was a clear attempt to get away, to walk away. The younger man was getting the better of the two.  The first thing I saw of the fight was the young man hit the older man. It was a punch to the face.' 

But another witness insisted it was Noye who struck the first blow. Stephen Darling told the court: 'The man got out of his Land Rover and slammed the door as if he was a bit agitated. The older man punched the younger fellow in the face with his right fist. That was the first act of violence I saw.'

Heather Titley described how Stephen staggered in the road before collapsing to the ground as Noye made his getaway. 'I saw the younger man stagger and look down at his hands. They were covered in blood,' she said. 'He put his hands out in front of him. He looked shocked and confused. It was not apparent that he had been stabbed but it was apparent that he was severely injured.'

The case continues.



