A JAGUAR driver told the M25 road rage murder trial yesterday that Kenneth Noye threw the first punch in a fight that led to the death of 21-year-old Stephen Cameron.

Stephen Darling said Noye, 52, got out of his Land-Rover Discovery, slammed the door and appeared 'uptight' as he confronted Stephen. Mr Darling said: 'I saw him throw a punch. The older man threw a punch with his right hand and it hit the younger fellow in the face.' But Mr Darling told the Old Bailey jury that soon 'the young fellow was getting the better of the older man'. Noye allegedly cut up a van driven by Stephen's fiancee Danielle Cable.

Noye is then said to have got out of his vehicle to confront Stephen, who had shaken his head in disapproval. After the younger man got the better of him, Noye allegedly returned to his car to get a knife and stabbed Stephen twice through the chest, piercing his heart and liver.

A couple told how they stopped to try and help Stephen. Carl Page and girlfriend Mary Parish saw Stephen, covered In blood, pull up his T-shirt and say: "I've been stabbed." As Noye raced off in his Discovery, Stephen collapsed.

Miss Parish said she saw Noye and Stephen square up to each other at the M25 interchange near Swanley, Kent. She said: 'The next thing was the older man was running and jumping in his car. I heard the boy say to his girlfriend 'I've been stabbed'. The Discovery was pulling away then, very fast.'

Heather Titley also saw the brawl. She said: 'The younger man was holding on to the collar of the older man. The younger of the two men appeared to stagger and then he looked at his hands and they were covered in blood.'

Her husband Stephen added: "At some stage during the fighting the older guy turned to walk away and the younger man grabbed him. They faced each other and rapidly exchanged violent punches."

Helen Merral, who was driving her Mini, said: "The first thing I saw of the fight was the young boy hit the older man. The older man began to walk away. The younger man went to the older man again and it was obvious that he wanted to carry something on."

Off-duty policeman Gary Clarke said: "The older guy appeared to be coming off worse. The younger man was fitter and kicking him in the groin. The older man was getting out of puff."

Noye, from Sevenoaks, Kent, denies murder. He claims it was self-defence. 

The trial continues.
