A PATIENT who died while being treated by Dr Harold Shipman in his surgery could have had morphine in her body already, the jury in the GP's murder trial was told yesterday.

The prosecution alleges that Dr Shipman injected Ivy Lomas, 63, with a lethal dose of the drug. But Nicola Davies, QC, in her closing speech for the defence, said there was another explanation. She told Preston Crown Court that Mrs Lomas was prescribed a painkiller, which breaks down into morphine, before her death in the surgery at Hyde, Greater Manchester, in May 1997. Miss Davies said the most likely explanation for Mrs Lomas's sudden death was that the drug pholcodine exacerbated her heart condition. 'That being the case, there is no case against Dr Shipman,' she said.

The murder charge relating to Mrs Lomas was probably the most damning against the doctor, she said. But Miss Davies reminded the court that on the morning of her death, Mrs Lomas was anxious about her son Jack and that she already had heart trouble. Miss Davies said that it was 'impossible' for Dr Shipman, 53, to have murdered another patient - Marie Quinn, 67. She said: 'Putting it bluntly there wasn't enough time.' Dr Shipman's computerised medical notes and Mrs Quinn's itemised telephone bill showed a 'very tight window of time' for the alleged murder to be carried out. Miss Davies also questioned the reliability of some of the witnesses. She said one policeman made a statement over a year after the event with only brief notes to refer to.

The memories of close friends and relatives of the dead women might have been affected by the distress they suffered when their loved ones died, she said. Forensic evidence might not have provided all the information needed because the exhumed bodies were too decomposed, Miss Davies said. The foundation stone of the prosecution's case was toxicology, she said, but the tests conducted were 'unreliable and unsafe'. Miss Davies suggested that the youngest alleged victim, Bianka Pomfret, 49, had suicidal thoughts two days before her death.

Errors in Dr Shipman's notes and documents merely illustrated that keeping records was not one of his strengths - not that he was a murderer. Dr Shipman, of Mottram, near Hyde, has pleaded not guilty to all charges, including forging the will of one of his alleged 15 victims. 

The trial was adjourned until Monday.



