CLAIMS THAT 500,000 Jews were gassed at Auschwitz were 'totally demolished' by the fact that no one had shown how the gas was injected into the chambers, the historian David Irving said yesterday.

Mr Irving told the High Court that several 'revisionist' historians who questioned the scale of the Holocaust had photographed the ruins of the Auschwitz gas chambers without finding any evidence of holes in the roof used to insert poison gas. That evidence, based on visits to Crematorium Two, 'blew holes in the whole gas chambers story', he claimed. Mr Irving, 62, was speaking as he continued his libel action against an American academic, Deborah Lipstadt, and Penguin Books, over her accusations in a book published in 1994 that he is a 'Holocaust denier'.

Mr Irving said: 'I do not accept that the Nazis in the last frantic days of the camp, when they were in a blue funk, would have gone around with buckets of cement filling the holes that they were going to dynamite,' he said. Mr Irving, who is representing himself, cross-examined Professor Robert van Pelt, appearing for Ms Lipstadt and Penguin, over his insistence that there was a 'massive amount of evidence' of the camp's use for mass extermination. During detailed debate yesterday over atrocities committed at Auschwitz, Professor van Pelt argued that the gas chambers were first dismantled and then dynamited when the gassings stopped in November 1944 as the Russians advanced.

The evidence included eyewitness accounts, aerial photographs taken by US surveillance flights in 1944 and drawings from memory of a sonderkommando - a Jewish inmate selected to work in the crematoriums. One photograph by an SS man in February 1943 also showed openings above ground on the newly complet. ed roof of Crematorium Two with a form of cover on top. The defence claims these projections were from four introduction columns through which Zyklon B pellets travelled.

Mr Irving, who says that the gas chambers were used only to delouse corpses and objects, claims the picture was taken in December 1942 during building works and that the objects on the roof were drums of sealant. But Professor van Pelt said drawings from 1945-46 by the sonderkommando, a very experienced draughtsman called David Olere, showed openings for injecting the pellets into the gas chamber at Crematorium Three.

The case continues.
