Witness evidence of gas chambers at Auschwitz was 'totally demolished' because there were no holes in the roof through which to insert poison, the historian David Irving told the high court yesterday. Mr Irving, the 62-year-old author of Hitler's War, who is seeking libel damages for being called a 'Holocaust denier' and a 'falsifier of history' said that his theory 'blows holes in the whole gas chambers story'. 'Revisionist' researchers had entered the ruins of crematorium two at Auschwitz, in which Holocaust historians say 500,000 died, and photographed the collapsed underside of the roof' but found no holes.

'I do not accept that the Nazis in the last frantic days of the camp, when they were in a blue funk, would have gone around with buckets of cement filling the holes that they were going to dynamite.'

Mr Irving, who is representing himself, was cross-examining Robert van Pelt, who has said that there was a 'massive amount of evidence' of the camp's use for mass extermination.

Prof van Pelt has said that the gas chambers were dismantled and then dynamited when the gassing stopped in November 1944 as the Russians advanced.

Giving evidence for the American academic Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin Books, who are fighting Mr Irving's action, he says the evidence for gassing included witness accounts, photographs and drawings from memory of a sonderkommando - a Jewish inmate selected to work in the crematoria.

He referred Mr Justice Gray to a photograph taken by an SS man in February 1943 which showed openings above ground on the newly completed roof of crematorium two with a cover on top of them. The defence case is that these projections were from four introduction columns through which Zyklon B pellets were passed.

Mr Irving, who says that the gas chambers were only used to delouse corpses, claimed the picture was taken in December 1942 during building works and that the objects were drums of sealant.

Prof van Pelt also relied on an aerial photograph taken by the Americans in the summer of 1944 which showed 'four dots' on the roof of crematorium two. He said that this showed clearly that there were 'introduction devices' on top of the building.

Mr Irving questioned the authenticity of the photograph and said the dots were too big for the purpose put forward by the defence.

The hearing was adjourned until tomorrow.
