EYEWITNESS evidence of the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz was 'totally demolished' because there were no holes in the roof through which to insert poison, the historian David Irving told the High Court yesterday.

Mr Irving, the 62-year-old author of Hitter's War, who is seeking libel damages for being called a 'Holocaust denier', said, his theory 'blows holes in the whole gas chambers story'.

He said a number of 'revisionist' researchers had entered the ruins of Crematorium Two at Auschwitz, in which Holocaust historians say 500,000 died. They photographed the collapsed underside of the roof but found no holes.

'I do not accept that the Nazis, in the last frantic days of the camp, would have gone around filling the holes that they were going to dynamite', he said.

Mr Irving, who is representing himself, made the comments while cross-examining Prof Robert van Pelt, who has said that there was a 'massive amount of evidence' of the camp's use for mass extermination.

Prof van Pelt has said that the gas chambers were first dismantled and then dynamited when the gassings stopped in November 1944 as the Russians advanced.

He was giving evidence for the American academic Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin books, who are fighting Mr Irving's action. He said the evidence for gassing included eyewitness accounts, photographs and drawings from memory of a sonderkommando - a Jewish inmate selected to work in the crematoria.

He referred Mr Justice Gray to an SS photograph taken in February 1943 which showed openings on the roof of Crematorium Two with a cover on top of them.

The defence case is that these projections were from four introduction columns through which Zyklon B pellets travelled.

Mr Irving, who says that the gas chambers were used only to delouse corpses and objects, claimed that the picture was taken in December 1942 during building works and that the objects on the roof were drums of sealant.

Prof van Pelt also relied on an aerial photograph taken by the Americans in the summer of 1944 showing 'four dots' on the roof of Crematorium Two. He said that this showed that there were 'introduction devices' on top of the building.

Mr Irving questioned the authenticity of the photograph and said that whatever the dots were, they were too big for the purpose put forward by the defence.

Prof van Pelt also cited the drawings, undertaken in 1945-46, of a sonderkommando David Olere, which showed openings for the introduction of the pellets into the gas chamber at Crematorium three.

Mr Irving argued that the inclusion in the sketches of nubile naked women meant that they were intended to be marketable and were therefore unreliable.

Mr Irving is suing over Prof Lipstadt's 1994 book, Denying The Holocaust: The Growing Assault On Truth And Memory. Accused by the defendants of being 'a liar and a falsifier of history', he depends on a 1988 report by a man called Fred Leuchter, who had taken samples from ruins at Auschwitz and concluded that there were never homicidal gas chambers there. Mr Irving says Prof Lipstadt's book has generated 'waves of hatred' against him.

Mr Irving said the defence's 'so-called' eyewitnesses were a relatively small number for the large proposition at stake.

Apart from that, he added, there was not 'a single document of any credible worth' which explicitly set out the defence case in all the 'hundreds of thousands' of papers in the Auschwitz museum and the Moscow archives. He submitted that his position on the Holocaust was justifiable and not perverse.
