A FORMER Tory minister admitted yesterday to having a conviction for punching a taxi driver and being cautioned for not mentioning the offence when he applied for a firearms certificate.

Rod Richards, 53, who is married, also confessed he had not 'ruled out' having a sexual relationship with two sisters who invited him to their home for coffee during a business trip to London.

Richards. who is accused of punching one of the women in the face and breaking her arm after being told to leave, later said he had been a 'fool' to return to the flat after 'chatting up' the sisters.

Lady Mallalieu, QC, for Richards, told Kingston Crown Court that he wanted it known that he had a previous conviction for assault occasioning actual bodily harm in 1974, to which he had pleaded not guilty but for which he was fined £40. Richards said: 'I was a student doing a holiday job for a minicab firm in Notting Hill. There was a disagreement with another driver and I hit the other driver.'

Richards was cautioned in August 1997 for failing to mention the conviction when securing a firearm and shotgun certificate.

Richards, who has been married for 25 years and has three children, told how he met Cassandra Melvin, 23, and her sister Tiffini, 31, last July. The former Welsh Office minister and Tory leader in the Welsh Assembly said he had gone to Richmond, south-west London, where he used to live, for a meal. He met the Melvin sisters at the Victoria Inn and invited them to join him for a pizza.

Richards said he did not find either woman particularly attractive but his 'domestic arrangements' were such that he would have been able to pursue a sexual encounter with one should the occasion arise. Although neither of the Melvin sisters signalled that they were interested in the former MP, he returned to Tiffini Melvin's flat for a coffee and to collect money for the pizza bill.

Richards claimed that the mood suddenly changed and Cassandra Melvin manhandled him out of the flat. He denies inflicting grievous bodily harm on her.

The trial continues.