A MARRIED former Tory minister admitted yesterday he had been 'available' for a sexual encounter when he met two sisters in a pub and went back to their flat.

Rod Richards, 53, told a court he was free to pursue other women outside his marriage. The father of three said he flirted with Cassandra Melvin, 23, and her sister Tiffany, 31, in a 'teasing way' - but admitted they had given no indication they were interested in sex.

The former Welsh Office minister was giving evidence in Kingston Crown Court on the third day of his trial on a charge of assaulting Cassandra, causing her grievous bodily harm, outside the London flat last July.

Richards, a former Royal Marine, admitted he had a 1974 conviction for assault after punching a driver with the minicab firm for which be worked while he was a student. He also admitted that he was cautioned by police in 1977 when he failed to mention the conviction in an application for a shotgun and firearms certificate. 

Under cross- examination Richards also said he was 'not completely frank' in his statement to police after the incident. At first he said he 'didn't fancy' the girls - but subsequently admitted he had chatted them up and had 'not ruled out' the possibility of a relationship.

Asked if there was any sexual motive for him going back to the flat, Richards said: 'There was no reason in view of my domestic arrangements in not pursuing that. I am not saying nothing crossed my mind.'

But he denied allegations made earlier In the trial that he asked Tiffany if she liked older men and suggested to the girls they 'go out on the razzle.' Richards, from Cardiff, claims he went back to the flat only to have a coffee while the sisters reimbursed him for their share of a £41 pizza meal they had eaten earlier.

He says Cassandra attacked him, then injured herself when she fell in the street. The prosecution says he punched her, throwing her against a parked car and breaking her elbow.

Richards, a Welsh Assembly member who resigned the Tory leadership there to fight the case, spoke of his shame during an hour and 20 minutes in the witness box. He said he had gone to London for meetings and had planned to have dinner with Tory MP Nigel Evans. But Mr Evans had to make a TV appearance, so he took a taxi to revisit old haunts in South-west London, where he had lived with his family for seven years. 

He met the sisters in his former local pub in Richmond and they went for a meal at a nearby pizza restaurant. Questioned by his lawyer, Baroness Mallalieu QC, Richards admitted that going back to their flat in Kew had been 'a pretty foolish thing to do'. But he categorically denied claims by the sisters that he had been rude or had put his hand on Tiffany's knee or that he had been smoking cannabis. He said that after a 'jovial' evening there had been 'a complete mood change' at the flat and Cassandra, a restaurant manageress, had pulled him to his feet and pushed him towards the front door.

The hearing continues.
