A BLACK woman cop wept tears of joy yesterday as she was cleared of assaulting a white sergeant.

A court accepted Joy Hendricks - who said she suffered years of racial abuse - had acted in self-defence. The case is another huge blow to London's Metropolitan Police. It is still reeling from a damning report into the handling of the Stephen Lawrence murder probe which accused them of being "Institutionally racist".

The WPC hugged her family outside court as she said: 'There must be come soul-searching in the force now. This must not happen again. I am very happy that this has all been brought out into the open. I am pleased I have at last been believed - but this must not end here.'

WPC Hendricks, 35, had been accused of attacking Sgt Mark Workman with a cue in a snooker room at Islington police station, North London.

She claimed he sneered: "Here comes Stevie Lawrence No2" and she lashed out fearing she was going to be attacked. She claimed some of his injuries were self-inflicted and that another cop, PC Chris Blair, lied to back his story.

Stipendiary magistrate Mrs Eleri Rees ruled in her favour - and said she was "troubled" by PC Blair's evidence.

The incident last September followed five years of racial abuse WPC Hendricks suffered whilst, in the crack Territorial Support Group.

Yesterday she said: "Hopefully the Metropolitan Police will now investigate all the previous allegations and the conduct of Sgt Workman and PC Blair in the courtroom."

But WPC Hendricks - off sick since the scuffle - vowed bravely: "I won't let people like this stop me going back to work. I can't wait to go back but it won't be straight away. This has been a huge strain and it will take a little while to get myself right."

Last night Scotland Yard dropped disciplinary action against WPC Hendricks but REFUSED to launch an immediate inquiry.

A spokeswoman said: "As things stand no complaint has been received against any officer. If we receive a complaint we will investigate."

WPC Hendricks joined the police in 1987 and moved to the TSG two years later.

She sobbed In the witness box as she told of the torrent of abuse she faced. She said: "There were only two women allowed on the unit - one in each of two teams - and I had to wait for one to leave before I could join. On the TSG I was treated like furniture, a token women. They had to have a black, so I was the token black - so they got two for the price of one. If they saw a white and a black together, it would be 'There goes a salt and pepper team'. They would use comments like BIF, which meant 'black, ignorant f***er' and 'groid'. which was short for negroid. It was always going on."

The WPC said she also faced a barrage of sex jibes. She told Horseferry Road Court: "When I left the unit I needed a lot of counselling. It affected my marriage and I am now divorced. But at some point in your life you have got to stand up to these people. "

Retired WPC Lisa Conneely told the court: "I was absolutely shocked to see the way officers were treating her. I told her to report it but it is very difficult for police women to do." WPC Hendricks switched from the TSG, stationed at Caledonian Road, to a vice squad based in Islington In 1995. She said she compiled a 11O-page complaint to her union, the Police Federation. But she was told the officers would simply deny her allegations, and she had left it too late for an industrial tribunal.

Then in September last year, Sgt Workman and PC Blair were among a 30-strong TSG team assembling at her station before a drug swoop. They gathered in the canteen after a briefing. She said that when she walked past Sgt Workman's table he said: "There's a lot of dodgy people around here."

WPC Hendricks said she felt angry and humiliated, and her mind flashed back to the abuse she suffered In the TSG. She said she went to seek out a senior officer to complain. She walked into the snooker room, saw Sgt Workman, 36, with another officer and demanded an apology WPC Hendricks went on: When I walked in he said, 'Watch out, here's Stevie Lawrence Two'.

I felt degraded. Here was an officer who was a skipper, yet he had still got the front to talk to me as if he was some bully out on the street. This guy had been bullying me for years. He is a copper with a responsible job who is supposed to protect people like me. I asked him to apologise three or four times but he just told me to f*** off.

He had a snooker cue which he lifted and he looked very angry. I thought he was going to hit me so I punched him, catching him by the jaw. Another officer grabbed me by both arms and pinned me against the snooker table. I was terrified. Mark Workman came back towards me and I thought he was going to assault me again so I kicked out. I only punched him once and kicked out at him once in self-defence.

They are two big six-foot guys end I am only five foot seven. Once I kicked him I got free and ran out.

Sgt Workman - who denied making racist or sexist comments - claimed he was attacked with the snooker cue, kicked and punched He denied speaking first, insisting WPC Hendricks stormed straight up to him demanding: "What did you say?"

PC Blair said he could not remember crucial details about the incident, but backed Sgt Workman's story. However, he said the sergeant's first words were "Hello, Joy" - contradicting Sgt Workman's account.

Magistrate Eleri Rees said: "It is not for me to make judgments about the Metropolitan Police or the TSG operate or how officers treat each other. "But we have heard a great deal about Joy Hendricks' unhappy experiences with the TSG. She believed herself to be the victim of racial and sexual harrassment. I believe she was sincere in seeing herself in that way. Provocation Is no defence or justification for violence. It was for the prosecution to assure me she was not acting in self-defence and they failed to do so. Only three people can ever know what actually happened in the snooker room. The accounts from WPC Hendricks and Sgt Workman were irreconcilable so I looked to the third officer for the objective and independent account. But his account left me troubled. There were certain discrepancies."

WPC Hendricks' barrister Lincoln Crawford, head of the Bar Council's Race Relations Committee, said afterwards: "This case shows we still have a long way to go despite the effects of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry."

Glen Smyth, chairman of The Met Police Federation, added. "It is incumbent upon the Met to take note of what has been said about this case. We need to be sensitive to these issues."