Lawyers for the home secretary yesterday attacked the Belgian government for its claims that he had acted 'unlawfully and irrationally' by not releasing the medical reports that found the former Chilean dictator, Augusto Pinochet, 84, was unfit to stand trial.

On the first day of a high court hearing in which the Belgian authorities and human rights groups are seeking a judicial review of the procedures the home secretary has adopted in making the decision that he is 'minded' to return the general to Chile, Jonathan Sumption QC, accused the Belgian government of launching a 'diatribe' against Mr Straw in a letter to the home office.

'I must be careful what I say in this court about a friendly foreign government.

But there are aspects of this letter of request that are surprising,' he told a packed court two.

'This is either a collateral process to get confidential material [the medical reports] for use in the UK, or the Belgians have not thought it through?' The extradition to Spain of General Pinochet to face charges of torture was becoming a 'symbol of a commitment to human rights' rather than a legal matter which had to be properly weighed up.

Rejecting claims of unfairness, he told Mr Justice Maurice Kay: 'In a difficult situation the secretary of state has got the balance exactly right and there is absolutely no basis in these applications for supposing his conclusion was perverse or in any other way unlawful?'

Earlier Presiley Baxendale QC, for the Belgian government, said that it was a 'breach of natural justice' for Mr Straw not to disclose the medical reports.

Without seeing the medical records - which Mr Straw has declined to disclose claiming they are covered by medical confidentiality rules - the Belgian government was unable to make meaningful representations.

'It was irrational because at one and the same time the secretary of state was asking Belgium to make representations and refusing to disclose the details of the report,' she told the court.

By halting extradition proceedings the home secretary was in danger of breaching international law and conventions under which signatories undertook to provide each other with the widest measure of 'mutual assurance' in extradition proceedings.

Richard Drabble QC, for Amnesty and other human rights groups, said their representations were mere 'shadow boxing' without access to the medical reports.

If Mr Straw did not have the power to force Pinochet to undergo further medical tests, he could use his discretion to push the general towards more medical tests or greater openness by threatening to continue the extradition proceedings and allowing the Spanish courts to rule on the matter.

The suggestion was roundly rejected by Mr Sumption who insisted that the laws of the country invested the authority for sanctioning extradition with the home secretary.

Faced with conclusive medical evidence Mr Straw was legally obliged to release a fugitive.

He attacked the human rights groups for bringing the proceedings, claiming the campaigners had no legal right to be heard in extradition matters.

Mr Straw had taken an 'exceptional step' in allowing them the opportunity to make representations at all.

The general had been examined by four highly eminent medical experts.

While it was possible there was a factual error in the report, it was not a strong enough possibility to outweigh the duty of confidentiality owed to the former Chilean dictator.

The hearing continues today.
