A QC representing Jack Straw attacked the Belgian judicial authorities in the High Court yesterday for their 'surprising' conduct in the extradition case involving Gen Augusto Pinochet.

Jonathan Sumption, who defended the Home Secretary's expected decision to free the former Chilean dictator on compassionate grounds, said one letter from Brussels had contained a 'diatribe' about the planned announcement.

'I must be careful about what I say in open court about a friendly foreign government but there were aspects which were surprising to say the least about the letters of request from Belgium. They had evidently not thought matters through.'

Mr Sumption, whose comments could cause a diplomatic row, rejected an application from Brussels and six human rights groups to order the publication of an independent medical report on Gen Pinochet, 84.

He urged Mr Justice Maurice Kay not to order a judicial review into Mr Straw's expected decision.

The Home Secretary said on Jan 11 that he was 'minded' to free Pinochet because of his ill-health and prevent his extradition to Spain to face trial on torture charges following 15 months under house arrest in Britain.

He delayed his final decision pending representations from the four governments that had issued extradition warrants to put Pinochet on trial - Spain, Belgium, Switzerland and France - and human rights groups.

Spain, Switzerland and France said they would respect Mr Straw's decision and not launch an appeal but Belgium instructed lawyers in London to launch an application for a judicial review.

Belgium complained that they could not make proper representations to the Home Secretary because the contents of the medical report had been kept secret.

Mr Sumption, who said a judicial review would lead to the postponement of the general's release and his 'undesirable continued detention,' said the case had in the eyes of many people 'become a symbol of the commitment of many countries to human rights'.

He said Mr Straw had properly used his discretionary powers contained in the Extradition Act to seek a medical report and, although his personal preference was to disclose it publicly, he respected the 'express assurances of confidentiality' given to Gen Pinochet.

'He is confident that there is no public interest to override the confidentiality,' he said. 'He had to balance the fairness of disclosure against the confidential nature of the material.'

Mr Sumption said Mr Straw had disclosed a 'great deal' more than he needed to about the medical examination, including the identities of the four specialists who conducted it and their conclusions. He had also released the instructions given to the doctors before the examination was conducted on Jan 5.

'He is the decision-maker in this case,' said Mr Sumption . 'He has taken the proper lawful steps to gain medical information about Pinochet by authorising an independent examination.'

He said Mr Straw had consulted Prof Liam Donaldson, the Government's chief medical officer, before the examination was held and the report was reviewed by Prof Donaldson before the Home Secretary made his preliminary announcement.

'The manner of the examination was impartial and it cannot be said that the report is unfair simply because Belgium and Amnesty International don't like its conclusions,' Mr Sumption added.

Presiley Baxendale QC, for Belgium, claimed that it was 'irrational and a breach of natural justice' for Belgium to be denied access to the medical report.

She said it was impossible for the Belgian judicial authorities to respond to an invitation for representations if they could not seethe contents of the medical report.

The judge, who adjourned the case until today, said he would deliver his judgement tomorrow afternoon or on Monday morning.
