THE BELGIAN government has sent a letter of complaint to Jack Straw over his decision not to disclose General Augusto Pinochet's medical reports, sparking a dispute between London and Brussels.

The account of the acrimony caused by the Pinochet affair was revealed during a High Court legal challenge to Mr Straw mounted by the Belgian government and six human rights groups.

Jonathan Sumption QC, appearing for Mr Straw, told the court that a letter from the Belgian authorities requesting disclosure of the reports and fresh medical tests was a 'diatribe against the Home Secretary complaining about his professional decision'.

Mr Sumption said: 'I must be very careful what I say about a friendly foreign government but there were aspects which were surprising about the letters of request from Belgium.'

The Belgian government is seeking a judicial review of the British government's 'failure' to assure that 84-year-old General Pinochet would not be sent home before Britain had complied with its international obligations, to co-operate with countries wanting to extradite the former Chilean dictator.

Belgium and the human rights groups are arguing that Mr Straw should reveal details of the medical tests on General Pinochet earlier this month, and Belgium claims it should be allowed to have a Belgian doctor present at a fresh medical examination for the general.

Presiley Baxendale QC, appearing for the Belgian government, said: 'It's a breach of natural justice if Belgium could not make meaningful representations because they couldn't see the medical records. It was irrational because at the same time the Secretary of State was asking Belgium to make representations and refusing to disclose the details of the report,' she said.

The court was told that on 14 January the Belgian Justice Ministry summoned the British ambassador and requested that the medical reports on General Pinochet be made available, in strict confidence, to a Belgian expert. But Mr Straw turned this down.

Ms Baxendale said the Home Secretary would be acting 'unlawfully and irrationally' if he allowed General Pinochet to return to Chile without allowing his opponents access to the medical reports.

Richard Drabble QC, appearing for the human rights groups, said General Pinochet's opponents had no idea of what diagnosis the medical experts had made and, as a result their representations were reduced to 'shadow-boxing'.

Mr Drabble said the Home Secretary could warn the general that unless he agreed to more tests he would be 'minded' to allow the extradition to go ahead.

Mr Sumption said the extradition was seen by some people as a 'symbol of a commitment to human rights'. He added: 'The stronger the feelings people have against General Pinochet the more important it is that this function should be conducted with detachment and compassion.

Mr Sumption described the Belgian position as an 'oddity'. Its request involved human rights abuse cases for which General Pinochet could not be held culpable under the second law lords ruling on the time scale and range of crimes for which he can be tried, he said.
