Two Libyans accused of carrying out the Lockerbie bombing must face charges of conspiracy as well as murder - and can be described as members of their country's intelligence services, a Scottish judge ruled yesterday.

Presiding over a pre-trial hearing at a specially-constituted court in the Netherlands, Lord Sutherland struck a serious blow at defence efforts by dismissing arguments that the two men should not face a count of conspiracy.

But he agreed to delay the start of the trial until May 3, and warned that witnesses appearing for the prosecution of Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Al-Amin Khalifa Fahima could not be heavily disguised, despite fears for their safety.

Colin Boyd QC, solicitor-general for Scotland, had referred to the need to protect serving

CIA officers as well as former officers of the East German ministry of state security - the Stasi and a Libyan defector and witness named Abdul Majid Abdul-Salam Giaka, now believed to be living in the US.

Also included in the prosecution request were a Swedish intelligence officer, a Maltese woman translator, and a member of the British security services - "MrA".

William Taylor QC, for Megrahi, complained: "It would be a travesty of justice and inevitably restrict the court's examination of those individuals."

Lord Sutherland said: "The court must have regard to the demeanour of a witness, including facial expressions."

Granting the defence request to put back the start of the trial, originally due to start on February 2, the judge said: "It is abundantly clear from the nature of the indictment that preparation of the defence case is one of exceptional difficulty."

Over 1,100 witnesses and more than 2,300 documents are expected to be considered in the case against the two Libyans, accused of murder, conspiracy to murder and contravention of the aviation security act for their alleged role in the bombing of PanAm Flight 103 on December 21, 1988.

All 259 people aboard, most of them Americans, were killed along with 11 people on the ground when the airliner exploded above Lockerbie.

The defence had also argued that references to the accused as alleged members of the Libyan intelligence services should be removed as irrelevant and prejudicial, but the judge said the case appeared to hinge on the use of explosives and timers, so that related evidence must be important.
