EVIL David Francis began a seven-year jail sentence yesterday - for running a drugs empire while heading a Government-funded team to HELP addicts.

Francis earned just £12,000 a year as a city's chief crack-cocaine counsellor - but had DIAMONDS set in his teeth. He also FLAUNTED a £30,000 watch, DRIPPED with gold and other jewellery and BOASTED he ran four luxury motors - a £50,000 Mercedes 320 SL a Porsche, a BMW and a Saab turbo.

The 37-year-old also owned a plush £150,000 house. Incredibly, council chiefs in Nottingham, Home Office officials, top cops, clergymen and an MP never suspected he was a double-dealer.

Wicked Francis even sat on a committee with an assistant chief constable discussing drug policy. And he helped with evidence to a House of Commons Select Committee on drug abuse.

Francis landed his Job as an addiction counsellor by fooling a string of mandarins into believing he was a reformed criminal.

But under the cover of his official duties - paid for by the Home Office - he grew rich running a drugs empire whose tentacles of misery spread across the Midlands and the North. 

But yesterday the monster's reign ended in ruin as he was jailed after being caught with half a kilo of heroin with a street value of £72,000. 

He pleaded guilty at Nottingham Crown Court to possessing the drug with intent to supply. 

Judge Dudley Bennett told him: "I have to deal with people day after day in this court who commit crimes to fund their drug habit. Because of your involvement in the past with trying to stop all that in your work, you more than anybody else should have known the misery of people who had become addicted."

Police had mounted Operation Odin to snare Francis after pooling years of intelligence on the man they believed was Nottingham's top peddlar of heroin and crack cocaine. They reckoned Francis had set up a pyramid business using boys as young as TWELVE to ferry drugs on mountain bikes around the St Ann's and Meadows estates.

Further up the pyramid Francis provided "lieutenants" with cars and cash to buy drugs in bulk from dealers in London and Birmingham.

At the top of the pyramid was Francis - who believed he had become untouchable after convincing local politicians he was a dedicated anti-drugs worker.

But after weeks of surveillance, police smashed their way into a St Ann's council house rented by Francis on February 23 1999. Francis stood stunned on the stairs, dropping the mobile phone he had to his ear as police swarmed in.

A further 132 of his pushers were rounded up later. Two of his henchmen were also jailed for possession of heroin with intent to supply yesterday. Stephen Warner, 33, of Wollaton, Nottingham, got five years and Christopher Powell, 21, of Thornton Heath, Surrey, got 5 1/2 years. Francis had been involved in crime since he was just 14 - and had THIRTY-SEVEN previous convictions for offences including burglary, unlawful sex, drugs and having a gun.

But he pretended he had gone straight to land the £240-a-week counselling job, which he held for four years.

He won the support of local Labour MP Alan Simpson and helped him with evidence about crack addiction for a Parliamentary Select Committee. Mr Simpson later said Francis was the victim of malicious rumours after his drugs secret began to emerge, the court heard.

Francis also gained the backing of Sir Geoffrey Errington, chairman of the charitable Association for the Prevention of Addiction, who appointed him leader of the Crack Awareness Team. He even sat across the table from Nottinghamshire police chiefs at meetings to plan drugs policies.

But while he was duping them into believing he was helping people out of their hell, Francis was living an astonishing life of luxury right under their noses. Police soon became convinced he was dealing in drugs - and worried social workers tried to blow the whistle on. him.

But Francis's charity bosses were so convinced he was doing a top-notch job that they suspended STAFF who complained.

Sir Geoffrey said: "Me is a good guy as far we are concerned. He is a jolly worthwhile employee."

A Nottinghamshire police source said last night: "He was a thorn in our side for 20 years but we couldn't catch him. After his work with the drugs agency he had a ready-made market - he knew who all the addicts were and where they lived."Francis believed he was untouchable and got arrogant - then he began to make mistakes."

And a detective said: "Francis would drive through Nottingham in his open-topped car with the stereo blaring and his wealth on display. "To an extent he was a role model for youngsters in the black community - they saw how easy it was for him to get what he wanted and they felt they should be able to do the same, "Our worry now is that there may be a power vacuum left by his imprisonment."