One of the biggest anti-drug agencies in the country was in disarray last night after a former manager admitted being in possession of half a kilo of heroin with intent to supply and was jailed for seven years.

Addaction - formerly known as the Association for the Prevention of Addiction - had investigated complaints that Dave Francis, 37, who ran their crack awareness team in Nottingham, was an active professional dealer. They disciplined staff who complained about his behaviour and attacked the Guardian which exposed Francis as a dealer in May1997.

Sentencing him at Nottingham crown court, Judge Dudley Bennett told Francis: "You more than anybody else should have known the misery of people who have become addicted. I have to deal with people day after day in this court who appear before me after committing crimes to fund their drug habit."  A second charge of conspiracy was left to lie on the file.

Although the events which led to Francis's arrest occurred after he left the agency, evidence collected by the Guardian and by Nottingham detectives leaves no doubt that Francis was dealing under cover of the agency for nearly four years, and continued to deal on a city-wide scale after the Guardian forced him to resign in 1997.

While Francis managed the crack awareness team, posing as a crusader against drugs, he organised regular supplies of crack cocaine and heroin to addicts in the city, including those who had come to the team for help. He also dealt In stolen goods, firearms and prostitutes.

He employed a second dealer, Henry Warner, as his deputy and allowed the team's office to be used for drug-taking. Police believe that, while he was running the agency, he became one of the biggest dealers in the Midlands, controlling an illegal organisation of more than 100 workers in Nottingham.

In the summer of 1996, a group of Francis's colleagues made written complaints to the agency about his activity. Twenty other professionals in the city expressed anxieties about him.

His lifestyle ran far ahead of his income. He earned £21,000 a year from the agency and yet he drove a £49,500 Mercedes, had two homes in Nottingham, wore a £30,000 watch and sported diamonds drilled into his front teeth.

The then head of the city's major crimes unit said publicly that he was 100% certain that Francis was an active dealer. But when the parent agency, Addaction (then APA), finally held an internal inquiry, they concluded in March 1997 that there was no evidence against him.

"He's a good guy as far as we're concerned" the agency's then chairman, Sir Geoffrey Errington, said at the time. "These things were rumours. There was no hard evidence."

Addaction, which still receives annually £3.5m of public and charitable funds, continues to claim that there is no evidence that he committed any offence while he worked for them.

Since Francis was exposed, the agency, which includes the wife of the former home secretary, Michael Howard, on its board, has won new home office contracts to work with drug users in prison. After being exposed by the Guardian, Francis resigned from the crack awareness team and continued to deal on a huge scale, flaunting his wealth and power.

Nottingham police reacted by setting up a "total surveillance operation", codenamed Odin, which was of such unprecedented scale that finally it not only arrested Dave Francis but took out 134 of his alleged associates and dealers.

Detectives say that Francis's role in the crack awareness team directly assisted his rise to power.  According to one detective: "It gave him a perfect excuse if he was ever caught with drugs or with people in possession of drugs. It also made it much more difficult for us to hassle him, because he had political connections in the city. "Tapes from Francis's house showed be had been running crimes in the city for years." 

Before he was hired by Addaction, he had headed a team of armed robbers from the Meadows estate and he had already been convicted of more than 30 offences involving burglary, theft, firearms, unlawful sexual intercourse and possession of drugs. He told Addaction he had become a Christian and he was given access to some of the most vulnerable people in the city and a budget of more than £170,000 of public money. He attended planning meetings with senior police and was invited to give evidence to a parliamentary select committee.

In the autumn of 1995, five current and former staff filed written allegations, accusing Francis of dealing in heroin and cocaine, of trading in firearms and supplying women for prostitution. Witnesses detailed incidents where Francis had been seen with "bags and bags of weed" and huge quantities of cash; where he had used heroin to buy stolen goods and helped one of them to sells firearm.

Staff complained that the subsequent inquiry was serviced by managers who had already defended Francis and that it failed to call key witnesses. Addaction exonerated Francis, and threatened leading witnesses with legal action if they repeated their allegations. One employee who complained was suspended for supposed racism, even though neither Francis nor his deputy had been suspended when accused of systematic criminal activity.

It was only when the Guardian exposed Francis and the local health and social services withdrew their funding that Addaction was forced to withdraw from its schemes in the city.

Addaction's chief executive, Peter Martin, told the Guardian that "any allegation that APA or Addaction knew of, approved or condoned in any way any such inappropriate behaviour by David Francis while he was at APA or that we neglected our duty of care is categorically denied."
