During the huge Odin operation, detectives planted electronic bugs inside one of Francis's homes with six officers manning a listening post around the clock, set up video cameras to record his movements, clamped tracking devices on his cars, trawled through his bank and telephone records, used army special forces for surveillance, followed him to Jamaica and back (even bugging his seat on the plane), hired informers on weekly wages and, most destructive of all, used a mixed-race officer from another force to infiltrate the community, recording sound and pictures of numerous drug deals.

By monitoring Francis so intensely, the police exposed his operation, which turned out to be a highly organised corporate structure, headed by Francis and a group of lieutenants who formed what police call an army council. Each lieutenant was responsible for supplying a different area of the city through his own network of middle men and Street dealers.

Francis organised the Supply: sometimes through his Nigerian contacts in London, sometimes through a Midlands gypsy who has become a millionaire from armed robbery and drug deals, sometimes through delivery "mules" whom he escorted to Jamaica. In a six-week period just before his arrest, Francis moved seven kilos of heroin into Nottingham. The police bugs recorded Francis playing the part of the conventional entrepreneur, urging his men to be the quickest, the cheapest and the most reliable suppliers in the city.

He and his lieutenants held monthly board meetings at safe houses on the Meadows estate, where many of them had been born, to discuss supply lines and pricing. He warned his men: "Be paranoid." But the bugs recorded his every move recruiting new workers, haggling over money, organising supply, plotting to cut out the competition and then spending hours watching old soaps on cable television. Finally, on February 23 last year, detectives heard Francis discussing the sale of a load of heroin that was due from London that night They sent one surveillance team to follow the London suppliers as they drove up the motorway, and another team to Francis's flat in the city centre. With the key players all in place, the detectives took the door off its hinges and found their target with a carrier bag containing half a kilo of 67% pure heroin. Francis also had a roll of banknotes which were so heavily stained with heroin, cocaine, amphetamines and ecstasy that the traces went off the scale of their laboratory equipment.

Police arrested a total of 134 suspected dealers, including Francis's former crack awareness team deputy, Henry Warner, who last year admitted possessing heroin with intent to supply.
 


