An unarmed IRA quartermaster who was shot six times in a hotel room by a police officer was lawfully killed even though the raid by a specialist firearms unit had gone 'badly wrong', a coroner's jury ruled yesterday. The decision was condemned by Sinn Fein and the family of the victim, Diarmuid O'Neill, who died in a hail of bullets fired through a cloud of CS gas by an officer codenamed Kilo. Giving evidence from behind a screen, the officer, who worked for Scotland Yard's

S019 unit, said he thought O'Neill, 27, had a weapon and intended to kill him. Following the verdict, the coroner John Burton said he was unhappy at the way the three week inquest had been conducted. 'This is a democratic society. That society has required the police officers to take risks on our behalf. I have subjected them to three weeks' sustained attack without the protection afforded by the criminal court, with no pretence of natural justice and there is nothing that I can do about it. The need to change the law to prevent this is, to me, overwhelming.'

Earlier Dr Burton had angered Michael Mansfield, counsel for O'Neill's family, by telling the jury that a verdict of unlawful killing would make the IRA member seem a martyr and might suggest the bombing campaign he was helping to mastermind was justified.

O'Neill was shot when officer Kilo ran into room 303 of the Glenthorne Road hotel in Hammersmith, west London, on September 23, 1996.

The raid followed a three month surveillance operation on a suspected IRA cell following bombings,at Canary Wharf and in Manchester. The S019 team had discovered six tons of explosives, detonators, and AK47 assault rifles in north London and believed another attack was imminent.

A bugging device was placed in O'Neill's car and the jury, sitting at Kingston crown court, heard him telling an accomplice that any police officer who confronted him would have to be killed.

The hotel raid, however, was a disaster. A duplicate room key did not work and an electronically powered ram battered a hole through the door without opening it, ruining the element of surprise. Ten rounds of CS gas were thrown into the room making it difficult to see.

Officer Kilo denied he had shot O'Neill out of panic. 'Through the smoke I saw a figure by the door. I screamed 'show me your hands'. I didn't have good vision. The figure didn't move and said nothing. I couldn't see his hands ... I feared for my life.'

O'Neill's father, Eoghan, said he would consider appealing against the verdict, or seek a public inquiry. 'The police have got away lightly. They were deaf, blind and dumb. They should never have gone in there with the gas.'

Sinn Fein policing spokesman Gerry Kelly said the decision did not surprise anyone in Ireland. 'There is no expectation that Irish people alive or dead can achieve justice in British courts.'

The head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, said he would review the way specialist operations are conducted.



