AN UNARMED IRA quartermaster shot dead during a bungled police raid was lawfully killed, an inquest jury ruled yesterday.

Diarmuid O'Neill, a member of an IRA unit suspected of a bombing campaign in London, was shot six times when an elite police firearms unit raided their hotel room in west London.

O'Neill, 27, from Cork, was shot through a cloud of CS gas, which left the police partly blinded, after several attempts by the police to enter the room quietly and catch the gang by surprise had failed.

Despite evidence that the raid was chaotic and failed to go to plan, the jury at Kingston-upon-Thames Crown Court decided after four hours of deliberation that the police were justified in shooting him dead.

The controversy surrounding the case continued after the verdict. The coroner, Dr John Burton, claimed there was an 'overwhelming' need to change the law for inquests after police witnesses were put under intense questioning from Michael Mansfield QC, acting for the family.

'I am not proud of my conduct in this inquiry or the form of the inquiry itseIf', he said. He added Mr Mansfield was right to argue that in a democracy the police should justify their actions.

But Dr Burton added: 'We ask them to do it. I have subjected them to three weeks' sustained attack without the protection afforded by the criminal court, with no pretence of natural justice, and there is nothing that I can do about it.'

The jury had heard the raid followed a three-month surveillance operation run by M15 after an investigation into a series of bombings in England, including attacks on Canary Wharf and Manchester.

The police had uncovered about six tonnes of home-made explosives and three assault rifles in another hide-away, which they linked to O'Neill.

Surveillance tapes suggested his unit was planning to detonate a large lorry bomb in Central London, and that the IRA men were ready to shoot to kill if the police tried to raid them.

But under questioning from Mr Mansfield, the officers admitted there were a series of planning and intelligence errors during the raid, due partly to mis-hearing words on the surveillance tapes.

First, a copied key failed 40 open the door to Room 303 in the Glenthorne Road Hotel. Then, an 'Enforcer' battering ram brought up to break down the door simply smashed a hole in it. Finally, gas from 10 rounds of CS gas fired into the room left the police coughing and semi-blind because they did not have gas masks.

Mr Mansfield suggested to the officer who shot O'Neill, given the codename Kilo to protect his identity, that after a 'catalogue of errors' he was incapable of seeing that O'Neill was half-naked and unarmed.

The officer, giving evidence from behind a screen, admitted his vision had been badly impaired but said: 'His body language suggested he was holding a weapon. He was bristling. This was a man who was going to kill me. He was standing in a classic boxer stance. His hands were down. My perception was he had a gun and I was going to die.'

O'Neill's father, Eoghan, said he was 'disappointed' with the verdict and was considering an appeal.

He said: 'The police were deaf, blind and dumb. They should never have gone in there with the gas. My son would still be alive if they had not gone in with CS gas. I'm disappointed with the verdict. We wanted justice. I think the police have got away lightly. We will have to think about lodging an appeal, which we can do, and having a public inquiry.'



