AN UNARMED suspected IRA terrorist shot dead by police during a raid on a west London guest house was killed lawfully, an inquest jury decided yesterday.

Diarmuid O'Neill, 27, was shot six times by a police officer armed with an automatic rifle when officers from Scotland Yard's tactical firearms unit burst into his room in September 1996.

O'Neill's father, Eogban, and mother, Terry, sat in silence as John Burton, the west London coroner, read out the verdict reached by the jury at the end of a three-week inquest.

But the jury, who had been told how officers had been overcome by CS gas fired by colleagues during the raid, called for an investigation into the future use of protective masks.

Mr Burton called for changes in the law to prevent police officers being subjected to the sort of prolonged interrogation they had faced during the inquest.

'Society has required the police officers to take risks on our behalf. I have subjected them to three weeks' sustained attack without the protection afforded by the criminal court, with no pretence of natural justice and there is nothing that I can do about it.'

Mr Burton had given the jury at Kingston, south-west London, three possible verdicts to consider when he summed up the evidence it had heard: 'He was killed unlawfully - which can be presented to say he was a martyr and it justified what the campaign set out to achieve. He was killed lawfully - which can be presented to show that it is lawful in England to kill people without a trial and that justifies and explains the conflict. Or you have an open verdict and that can be presented however the person seeks to use it.'

During the inquest the jury had been told how the police operation to seize O'Neill, described as an IRA quartermaster, and his accomplices had gone wrong.

First, efforts to get into Room 303 of the hotel in Glenthorne Road, Hammersmith, which O'Neill shared with two accomplices, was unsuccessful when the duplicate key did not work. Then an attempt to break into the room using a small battering ram also failed. Finally several officers were overcome by CS gas which colleagues had fired into the room.

'Kilo', the officer who fired all the fatal shots, told the inquest that his vision had been affected by the gas.

Giving evidence from behind a screen, he added: 'His body language suggested he was holding a weapon. He was bristling. This was a man who was going to kill me. He was standing in a classic boxer stance. His hands were down. My perception was he had a gun and I was going to die.'

The jury had been told that the night raid had been ordered after fears that the IRA was on the point of unleashing another terrorist campaign. The gang, of which O'Neill was a member, had moved a lorry to London and six tons of explosives had been found in a lock-up garage in Hornsey, north London.

Michael Mansfield, QC, representing O'Neill's family had described the police operation as a catalogue of errrors.

Later outside the court Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of New Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch welcomed the verdict, while expressing sympathy for O'Neill's family.



