AN antiques dealer told a jury yesterday how rugby star Jeremy Guscott launched a terrifying attack on him in a busy street.

Ken Jones had tapped on Guscott's sports car after the star jumped a red light and narrowly missed him. But Guscott then leapt out of his £36000 Mercedes coupe in a fury and grabbed Mr Jones 'to teach him a lesson', prosecutor Susan Evans told Bristol Crown Court.

Mr Jones, 48, said he had been minding his own business and walking across the road between two shops he runs, when he felt Guscott a car flying by him. It screeched to a halt and he angrily rapped the driver's window with a ball of string. Next thing he knew the enraged athlete had grabbed him.

He alleged Guscott hurled him across the road and repeatedly slammed him against a doorway because he had 'the audacity' to step in front of the star's car. Guscott allegedly shouted: 'You're taking f***ing liberties - why did you make me use my brakes?'

The incident last March, when Jones suffered a broken ankle, was captured by security camera, Mr Jones told the jury: 'I went over to slap on the window on the driver's side'.

'I intended to say: 'You went through a red light,' then I was being grabbed. I was bundled back on to the pavement and then banged up and down. I don't really remember a great deal between the shouting and being down on the floor. My legs were on the ground but my body was being lifted. He continued to bang me against and said: 'Don't take liberties.''

'I said: 'You went through a red light.' He said: 'Never walk in front of my car like that'.'

Mr Jones claimed the former Gladiators presenter then snarled: 'You're lucky I don't punch your lights out.' I looked down and saw my right foot was at right angles to the pavement. I said: 'You've broken my ankle.' He said: 'Don't be stupid, it's dislocated'.'

When Mr Jones was taken to hospital, it was found he had several broken bones in his ankle. 

Ms Evans said Guscott now retired from international rugby through injury, told police he thought Mr Jones was about to damage his car. Guscott denies assault causing actual bodily harm.

The trial continues.