THE former England and Lions rugby centre Jeremy Guscott shouted, swore at and attacked a pedestrian who banged on his car window, breaking the man's ankle in a fit of road rage, a court was told yesterday.

Guscott, 34, completely lost his temper at the 'audacity' of an antiques dealer, Ken Jones, who remonstrated with him for jumping a red light. He jumped out of his Mercedes sports car, grabbed Mr Jones, 48, by the lapels of his waistcoat, propelled him on to the pavement, then 'slammed' him up against a shop doorway several times, a jury at Bristol Crown court was told.

As Mr Jones slumped to the ground, Guscott shouted at him: 'You don't take ******* liberties. Ever. Ever.' and 'Why did you make me use my brakes?'.

The altercation, partly captured on the soundtrack of a closed circuit television camera at Mr Jones's shop which was played to the jury, took place in March in Bath, where Guscott lives and where Mr Jones owns two antique shops.

Guscott denies one charge of assault occasioning actual bodily harm. He was accompanied to court by his wife, Jayne, and his parents.

Mr Jones, who spent 11 days in hospital after an operation on his broken ankle, told the jury that he was waiting to cross from one of his shops to the other having just fetched a ball of string. He began to cross as the traffic lights turned red, when Guscott's car went through the lights very close to him. 'I just felt the car flying behind me. It seemed to screech to a halt. I went over and slapped on the window on the driver's side,' Mr Jones said. 'I got as far as saying 'Oi'. I slapped the window using my right hand. There was a ball of string in it. I just wanted to remonstrate verbally with the driver and say 'you went through a red light'.

But the next he knew he was being grabbed by Guscott. 'I was sort of bundled back on to the pavement and then banged up and down on the floor a few times by the shop window. I was grabbed and pushed. It happened very quickly. He was very angry. I ended up in the front of the shop, and he continued to lift me up and down. He still had hold of my waistcoat and my legs were on the ground although my body was being lifted. He was shouting: 'Don't take ****** liberties with me'. I said 'but you went through a red light'. He shouted: 'Never walk out in front of my car like this'. I said: 'Why are you doing this?' He said: 'You're lucky I don't punch your lights out'.'

Mr Jones continued: 'I looked down and saw that my ankle was at right angles. I said: 'Look, you've broken my leg.' He said: 'Don't be stupid. It's only dislocated'.'

Mr Jones said he banged on the shop window and his partner called police and an ambulance. Several people witnessed the incident. Guscott remained at the scene.

Susan Evans, prosecuting, said that Guscott, a former host on the television series Gladiators, would enter a defence of self-defence. She told the jury that Guscott had told police he felt 'threatened' by Mr Jones, who is 5ft 9in and weighs 11 1/2st. 'The prosecution say that Mr Jones did not represent a threat to Mr Guscott, but that Mr Guscott was angry that Mr Jones had the audacity to step up to the front of his car and knock on the window. He was forcefully teaching Mr Jones a lesson.'

She added that Guscott had told another witness he thought the ball of string was a rock. The incident, which lasted a matter of 20 seconds, was partly recorded on the soundtrack of a CCTV video at Mr Jones's premises, Fountain Antiques, where a voice, said to belong to Guscott, could be heard swearing.

The police spoke to Guscott at the scene, she said, 'and far from claiming it was an act of self-defence, Mr Guscott wanted to speak further to Mr Jones and said he was willing to pay compensation'.

She added: 'Guscott later told police when he got out of the car he felt threatened by Mr Jones and that's why he took charge of the situation, by taking hold of Mr Jones in order to calm him down and walking him, as he puts it, on to the pavement.'

The trial continues.



