RUGBY star Jeremy Guscott launched a road rage attack on a pedestrian who had the "audacity" to object to him crashing a red light, a jury heard yesterday.

The England and British Lions centre and Gladiators TV presenter was said to have narrowly missed 48-year-old antiques dealer Kenneth Jones on a pedestrian crossing. When Mr Jones protested by banging on the side of Guscott's £36,000 Mercedes sports coupe, he jumped out of the car and attacked him, it was alleged.

The jury was told that he slammed Mr Jones against a doorway, accused him of taking liberties and said: 'Why did you make me use my brakes?' Mr Jones suffered a broken ankle in the attack and was in hospital for 11 days.

A security camera which captured the incident was shown to the jury at Bristol Crown Court where Guscott, 34, denies causing actual bodily harm to Mr Jones.

Prosecutor Susan Evans told the court that the attack took place last March as Mr Jones was about to cross the road at a crossing in Bath.

'There was a car approaching but Mr Jones stepped out because the light was red against the car,' said Ms Evans. 'Instead of stopping, the car continued, passing very close to Mr Jones, who was pretty shaken. He was going to remonstrate and he knocked on the window with the hand in which he was holding a ball of string.'

Guscott got out of the car, grabbed Mr Jones and told him 'you are taking f_ing liberties' and 'why did you make me use my brakes? He then propelled him into a doorway and slammed him against it on a number of occasions.'

Describing the security video, she said: 'He seems to push him in a fairly aggressive manner. He is slammed into the doorway a number of times. Mr Jones slumped to the floor and broke his ankle. He pointed out to Guscott that he had broken his ankle but Guscott was dismissive of this and told him it was only a dislocation.'

Ms Evans said: 'Guscott says he was acting in self-defence. The prosecution say this was not self-defence at all. Mr Jones did not represent a threat to Guscott. He was angry that Mr Jones had had the audacity to step out in front of his car and knock on his window and he was effectively teaching Mr Jones a lesson.'

She added: 'I expect you have all heard of him and you probably know something of his achievements. You probably know he represented his country at the highest level in rugby. I am sure it will not give anyone any pleasure to convict Jeremy Guscott of this offence, but in trying this case you have to put aside any emotions that you might have and try this case on the evidence that you hear.'

In the witness box, Mr Jones told the jury: 'I got about halfway across the road then I felt this car going flying behind me. It couldn't have been very far away. I felt very frightened. The car seemed to screech to a halt. I went over to it and slapped on the window of the driver's side and said 'Oi'. I just wanted to remonstrate with the driver.'

Mr Jones said that the subsequent attack left him with his foot pointing the wrong way from his leg. He said Guscott told him: 'You're lucky I didn't punch your lights out.' Mr Jones went on: 'I said 'You've broken my leg' and he said 'Don't be stupid, it's only dislocated'. I don't remember the exact words, but it was on the lines of 'You shouldn't walk out in front of a car' and I said 'If it's a red light you expect to be able to do that'. He said 'What if my brakes had failed?' which I didn't think was a very sensible thing to say.'

The case continues.



