THE England rugby international Jeremy Guscott drove through a red light then attacked a pedestrian who had the 'audacity' to try to cross in front of him, a court was told. Mr Guscott, 34, was driving his £36,000 Mercedes sports coupé in the centre of Bath when Ken Jones, an antiques dealer, saw the red traffic light and began to cross the road.

A jury at Bristol Crown Court heard that Mr Guscott, furious at having to brake, decided to 'teach Mr Jones a lesson'. After his encounter with the rugby player and former presenter of the Gladiators television show, Mr Jones, 48, spent 11 days in hospital for treatment to a broken ankle.

The court was told that, although Mr Guscott denies causing actual bodily harm and claims that he was acting in self-defence, the entire incident was filmed by a security camera.

Mr Jones said that after Mr Guscott's car narrowly missed him, it screeched to a halt and he tapped on the window to 'remonstrate' with the driver for passing the red light. The next thing he knew he was being 'banged up and down on the floor'.

Mr Jones said: 'He continued to lift me up and down, then he started swearing and shouting. I looked down and I said to him: 'You've broken my leg.' He was saying: 'Don't take f***ing liberties with me.' And I said: 'But you went through a red light.' He kept saying: 'Don't take f***ing liberties. Never walk out in front of my car like that.' He said: 'You are lucky I didn't punch your lights out.' He was very angry.'

Mr Jones said that he looked down and saw that his foot was lying at an odd angle. He added: 'I said: 'You've broken my ankle.' And he said: 'Don't be stupid. It's only dislocated.' I think he realised that he had injured my ankle. He walked away and I thought he was going to get into his car and drive off. I thought it was a hit and run. I started banging on the railings of the shop and shouting inside to say I've been attacked and to take the car number.'

Mr Guscott, 34, who retired from international rugby during the World Cup last month, sat expressionless during Mr Jones's evidence. His wife, Jayne, and other members of his family watched from the packed public gallery. Susan Evans, for the prosecution, said: 'On a Wednesday afternoon last March, a pedestrian was about to cross the road at a crossing in Bath. There was a car approaching, but the pedestrian stepped out because the light was red against the car. Instead of stopping, the car continued, passing very close by the pedestrian. Mr Jones was pretty shaken. He was going to remonstrate and he knocked on the window with the hand in which he was holding a ball of string.'

Ms Evans said that Mr Guscott later told police that he believed that the ball of string was a rock and that Mr Jones was about to damage his car. She skid that Mr Guscott told police that he felt under threat from Mr Jones and was 'taking charge of the situation' by walking him to the shop doorway. 

Referring to security camera footage of the incident, which the jury was shown, she said: 'He seems to push him in a fairly aggressive manner. He is slammed into the doorway a number of times. Mr Jones slumped to the floor and broke his ankle. Jeremy Guscott says he was acting in self-defence. The prosecution says this was not self-defence at all. Mr Jones did not represent a threat to Mr Guscott. Mr Guscott was angry that Mr Jones had had the audacity to step out in front of his car and knock on his window and he was effectively teaching Mr Jones a lesson.'

Mr Guscott, a father of two who lives in Bath, won 65 caps for England and scored 30 tries. He has also taken part in three British Lions tours.

Ms Evans told the jury: 'I expect you have all heard of Mr Guscott. You probably know something of his achievements. You probably know he has represented this country at the highest level in rugby. I'm sure it won't give anyone any pleasure to convict Mr Guscott of this offence, but you have to put aside any emotions you may have.'

The trial continues.