RUGBY star Jeremy Guscott shattered a pedestrian's ankle in a road rage assault a jury heard yesterday.

Guscott, 34, jumped a red light at a crossing then attacked antique dealer Ken Jones when he knocked on the car window to complain, the court was told. Mr Jones, 5ft 9in and 11st 7lb, said the 6ft 1in, l3st 7lb England ace and Gladiators presenter jumped out of his Mercedes and grabbed him by the lapels of his waistcoat.

Mr Jones, 47, said: 'I was sort of bundled back on to the pavement and then banged up and down on the floor a few times near a shop window.'

The jury of nine women and three men were shown film from a security camera in a shop doorway which captured part of the incident. The courtroom lights were turned off while the jury watched the video. A male voice could just be heard saying. 'Who the f*** do you think you are doing that. You don't take f****** liberties mate... .ever.. . .ever.' Then the jury could hear Mr Jones banging on the grilling - in a plea for help.

Mr Jones told the court:  'He pushed me on to the floor and continued to bang me against the window. I said 'But you went through a red light'. He continued to say Don't take f****** liberties.'

'I said 'Why are you doing this?' And he said 'You're lucky I don't punch your lights out.'

'Mr Guscott was very angry. I looked down and saw my right foot was at right angles to my leg. I said 'You've broken my ankle'. He said something like 'Don't be stupid, it's only dislocated'.'

Mr Jones banged on the grill of his Fountain Antiques shop in Bath, Somerset, calling for help. When his partner Maggie Adams appeared she asked the rugby star his name and Guscott told her, the court was told. Then she phoned the police.

Mr Jones spent 11 days in hospital and needed an operation on his shattered ankle.

Guscott, who sat in the dock wearing a smart grey suit and blue shirt, was originally charged with causing grievous bodily harm. It was amended yesterday to a charge of actual bodily harm, which he denies.

Opening the case for the prosecution, Susan Evans said Guscott maintains he was acting in self-defence. But she went on: 'Mr Jones did not represent a threat to Mr Guscott. Mr Guscott was angry with Mr Jones as he had the audacity to step out in front of his car and knock on his window. He was effectively teaching Mr Jones a lesson.'

Guscott, who lives in Bath with wife Jayne and their two daughters, won 65 caps for England and scored 30 tries - putting him second in the all-time list after Rory Underwood. He also took part in three British Lions tours, scoring a series-winning dropped goal in South Africa two years ago, before announcing his retirement from International rugby last month during the World Cup.

Before the trial began yesterday Judge Simon Darwall-Smith asked the jury panel to indicate If they had close associations with Guscott's Bath club. One man said he was a keen fan and was excused service.

Prosecutor Miss Evans told the jury: 'You've probably all heard of Jeremy Guscott and heard of his achievements - that he has represented this country at the highest level. And I'm sure it won't give anyone any pleasure to convict him. But you have to put aside any emotions you might have and try the case on the evidence.'

The alleged incident happened at 4.3Opm on March 24 this year. Mr Jones said he was frightened and upset when Guscott's blue Merc jumped the red light and went flying behind him. He decided to remonstrate with the driver when the car screeched to a halt in a line of traffic.

She said: 'Guscott told police he felt threatened and decided to take charge of the situation.'

Before Mr Jones was taken to hospital Guscott told him he was willing to pay compensation.

The Bristol trial continues.



