RUGBY star Jeremy Guscott broke the ankle of a pedestrian he attacked in a road rage incident, a court heard yesterday. Antiques dealer Ken Jones told how the 34-year-old England and British Lions centre slammed him against a doorway and 'banged' him up and down on the pavement.

He allegedly told Mr Jones 'You're lucky I don't punch your lights out.'

The attack followed an incident involving Guscott's Mercedes sports car in the centre of Bath, Bristol Crown Court heard.

Guscott, who appeared in court dressed in a light grey suit, light blue shirt and blue tie, denies causing 47-year-old Mr Jones actual bodily harm last March. Susan Evans, prosecuting said Mr Jones was crossing the road between two shops he runs when Guscott's car went through a red light and narrowly missed him. What happened next was captured by a security camera in one of Mr Jones's shops, she said.

'The Crown suggests you can hear and see the aggression that Mr Guscott is employing as he deals with Mr Jones,' Miss Evans said.

'It's a very fast incident - it's seconds, rather than minutes - and Mr Jones is grabbed very quickly.' The jury was shown a three-minute video.

Mr Jones then told how he was crossing the road carrying a ball of string when the incident began. He said: 'I got about halfway across when I felt this car just going flying behind me. It seemed to sort of screech to a halt behind the crossing.

'I went over to slap on the window on the driver's side. I said, 'OI' and that was as far as I got. I was frightened and upset. I intended to say: 'You went through a red light', only I don't remember whether I said it or not as the next thing I knew I was being grabbed by the defendant. His grip was strong enough to push me backwards. I was bundled back on to the pavement and then banged up and down on the floor

'I don't really remember a great deal between the shouting and being down on the floor. Then I remember him swearing and shouting. 'He still had hold of my waistcoat. My legs were on the ground but my body was being lifted. It's never happened tome before. 'He pushed me on to the floor and continued to bang me against the window.'

'He said, 'Don't take liberties with me'. I said, 'But you went through a red light'. He said, 'Never walk in front of my car like that'. 'I said, 'Why are you doing this?' He said, 'You're lucky I don't punch your lights out. I looked down. My right foot was at right angles to the pavement.'

'I said, 'You've broken my ankle'. He said, 'Don't be stupid - it's only dislocated'.'

'I think he realised that he had injured my ankle. He walked away and I thought he was going to get in his car and drive off.'

'I started banging on the railings of the shop and shouting inside to say I'd been attacked and to take the car's number.'

Mr Jones said he was trying to talk to his partner, Maggie. She went to talk to Guscott. 'She asked him his name and I think she ran in and called for an ambulance.'

Guscott then sat on a chair which was for sale outside the antiques shop, Mr Jones said: 'I don't remember his exact words, but it was along the lines of, 'You should not walk out in front of cars'. He said, 'What if my brakes had failed?' I did not know what to say.' Mr Jones was taken to the Royal United Hospital In Bath where it was found he had three or four broken bones in his ankle.

He needed an operation and was in hospital for 11 days, Guscott, who won 65 England caps and scored 30 tries before retiring from international rugby after the recent World Cup was arrested the following day at his home in the city.

The Bath player who also does modelling and television work, originally faced a charge of causing grievous bodily harm, which was amended yesterday to a lesser charge.

Miss Evans said Guscott maintained he acted in self defence, saying he felt threatened by Mr Jones and had tried to 'calm him down by walking Mr Jones to the pavement'. She maintained: He was effectively teaching Mr Jones a lesson.

'Police spoke to Mr Guscott at that time. For a man who claims he had acted in self-defence Mr Guscott wanted to talk to Mr Jones and said he was willing to pay him compensation,' she said.

She told the jury: 'I expect you have all heard of Mr Guscott. I'm sure It won't give anyone any pleasure to convict Mr Guscott. But you have to put aside any emotions you may have,' 

The trial continues.



