A jury watched video footage of England rugby ace Jeremy Guscott allegedly beating up an antiques dealer in a road rage attack.

The tape, filmed on a CCTV camera in the victim's shop, is said to show the strapping star repeatedly slamming terrified Ken Jones, 47, into a doorway. Mr Jones says the assault broke his ankle in three places and left him in hospital for 11 days.

Guscott - who retired as England centre aged 34 during last month's World Cup - hit out after Mr Jones crossed the road in front of his Mercedes sports car, Bristol Crown Court heard. Mr Jones, 5ft 9in and 11st, told jurors he waited for about 30 seconds for traffic lights to turn red before walking across the town-centre street between his two shops in Bath, Somerset. But as he crossed, he claims 6ft 1in Guscott's £36,000 coupé ran the red light and almost hit him. Mr Jones told the court: 'I got about halfway across when I felt this car go flying behind me. It couldn't have been very far away. I felt very frightened. The car seemed to screech to a halt. I went over to it and slapped the window of the driver's side. I was upset. I just wanted to remonstrate with the driver. The next thing I knew, he grabbed me by the lapels and bundled me back on to the pavement. He then banged me up and down on the floor against my shop window. He was very angry. He was saying, 'Don't take f***ing liberties with me. Why did you make me use my brake?'

'I said, 'But you went past a red light'. He kept saying, 'Don't take f***ing liberties, never walk out in front of me. You're lucky I didn't punch your lights out'.

Mr Jones told how he looked down to see his right foot bent at 'right angles' to his leg. He said: 'I said to him, 'You've broken my leg'. He told me to not be so stupid, it was only a dislocation. He didn't seem concerned.' Mr Jones needed surgery to repair his ankle, the jury heard.

Prosecutors said the black and white video showed the force used by 13st 7lbs Guscott in the attack. The camera's microphone allegedly recorded the Bath star swearing. Guscott, a former presenter of TV's Gladiators, was arrested the next day at his home in the city.

The dad of two, supported in court by wife Jayne, denies assault. He claims he grabbed the antiques dealer in 'self defence'. But prosecutor Susan Evans said: 'We say Mr Guscott carried out this attack because this man had the audacity to knock on his window. We say he was trying to teach Mr Jones a lesson. Mr Jones did not represent a threat to him. This wasn't self-defence.' 

The case continues.