Jeremy Guscott, the England and British Lions rugby player, attacked a pedestrian who stepped in front of his sports car on a city centre crossing 'to teach him a lesson', Bristol crown court was told yesterday.

He propelled Ken Jones, 47, an antiques dealer, across the road by his lapels and slammed him against a doorway a number of times when Mr Jones knocked on the car window to remonstrate with him for driving through a red light in Bath.

Mr Jones told the jury of nine women and three men: 'I got about halfway across when I felt this car just go flying behind me. It seemed to screech to a halt. I went over to slap on the window of the driver's side. I said 'oy', and that was as far as I got. 'I intended to say 'You went through a red light', but I do not remember whether I said it or not as the next thing I knew I was being grabbed by the defendant. I just felt him grab me by the lapels. I was bundled back on to the pavement and then banged up and down on the floor.'

Mr Jones added: 'My legs were on the ground but my body was being lifted.'

He said Guscott continued to manhandle him against the shop front while shouting and swearing at him during the alleged road rage attack. 'He said: 'Don't take liberties with me'.

'I said: 'But you went though a red light'.'

'He said: 'Never walk out in front of my car like that'.'

'I said: 'Why are you doing this?' He said,: 'You're lucky I didn't punch your lights out'. He was very angry.'

Mr Jones said he noticed his right foot was at right angles to the pavement. 'I said: You've broken my ankle.' He said: 'Don't be stupid, it's only dislocated'.

Mr Jones was taken to hospital and was told he had three or four broken bones in his ankle. He told the court he had had an operation and was in hospital for 11 days.

Guscott, 34, who plays for Bath and announced his retirement from international rugby during the recent rugby world cup, denies a charge of causing actual bodily harm.

Susan Evans, prosecuting, said the alleged attack took place on a Wednesday afternoon in March when Mr Jones was about to cross the road at a pedestrian crossing. A car was approaching the crossing but he stepped out because the light was red. Instead of stopping, the car continued on to the crossing passing very close to him.

Ms Evans said Guscott later told police he believed a ball of string in Mr Jones's hand was a rock.

'Jeremy Guscott says he was acting in self defence. The prosecution say this was not self defence at all. Mr Jones did not represent a threat to Mr Guscott. Mr Guscott was angry that Mr Jones had the audacity to step out in front of his car and knock on his window and he was effectively teaching Mr Jones a lesson.'

She told the jury: 'I expect you have all heard of Mr Guscott. You probably know he has represented this country at the highest level in rugby. I'm sure it won't give anyone any pleasure to convict Mr Guscott of this offence. But you have to put aside any emotions you may have.'

The trial continues today.



