A HOMOSEXUAL village shopkeeper murdered a 12-year-old boy because he feared a sexual relationship that had developed between them would be exposed, a jury was told yesterday.

Kevan Roberts, 52, allegedly strangled Thomas Marshall with a bootlace-style necklace that the boy was wearing and with the collar of his T-shirt. He then disposed of the boys mountain bike in undergrowth before driving 50 miles to a lay-by notorious as a homosexual pick-up point, where he dumped the body.

It was not until a year later that detectives found a bead from the necklace lodged in the sink-trap of Mr Roberts's kitchen, for which he could offer no explanation. The Crown told the court it had fallen into the sink while Thomas was being asphyxiated.

The murder at a general store called Granville's at Eccles-on-Sea, Norfolk, in August 19197 took place after it had been arranged for Thomas to ride over for the evening, the Crown alleged. Charles Wide QC, for the prosecution, told Norwich Crown Court that Thomas had left his home in Happisburgh, Norfolk, after telling his mother he was going to see a friend.

'Thomas had plainly arranged to meet someone. This defendant had plainly arranged to meet someone,' Mr Wide said. 'The Crown's case is that each expected to meet the other and it was during that evening, perhaps because something happened to make Roberts fear that Thomas would tell others about what had gone on between them, that Roberts killed Thomas by strangling him.'

While in custody after his arrest, Mr Roberts had met Roy Reynolds, a paedophile serving a life sentence for serious offences against boys. Reynolds allegedly told him about a mistake he had made in committing an act against a boy and thereafter he lived in fear of upsetting the boy in case he disclosed to others what had happened.

Mr Wide added: 'Roberts said the situation was the tame with Thomas, something like 'once that happens you are over a barrel'. He explained that this was why he felt Thomas was taking over his life. He said he hated Thomas. who had it both ways - getting his pleasure and his money.'

Later Mr Roberts allegedly told Reynolds that, during a police interview, he 'came very close to admitting the murder and indicated with his thumb and forefinger a very small gap. He also said that Thomas had taken less than, one and a half minutes to die.'

Mr Roberts,who denies murder, was visited by police on September 1st 1998 - more than a year after the killing - when a poster published by the Eastern Daily Press seeking information on the missing boy was recovered from his home at the shop.

In a corner of the poster the police discovered that the dates of Thomas's death and burial had been written.

Mr Wide said: 'Thomas was in some ways old for his age. He was outgoing, with a strong independent streak. Superficially you may conclude that he was streetwise. You may, however, come to the conclusion that Thomas was streetwise enough to exploit the situation but not so mature as to realise what he may have been getting himself into.'

Mr Wide added: 'During the course of the inquiry, Roberts was open with the police about being a homosexual attracted by adolescent boys, though he said he never had a relationship with such a boy.'

Thomas and Mr Roberts were introduced by Thomas's friend, Adrian Smith, then aged l6, in the early summer of 1997. According to Mr Smith, the boys would steal cigarettes from Mr Roberts when his back was turned and on one occasion Thomas asked him if he was gay - which he admitted.

'Thomas went to the shop a lot,' Mr Wide said. 'Something of a sexual nature happened between them. Precisely what, the prosecution cannot say.' As the weeks went by, he became more confident, more of a nuisance and his behaviour deteriorated as he became cheeky and rude. 'Roberts said he tried to discourage the boys, but felt at times that he was losing control.'

In a statement Mr Roberts told police: 'If I didn't let him have something, he said he could make up a story that I'd touched him and tell the police.' 

The trial continues.



