A SHOPKEEPER strangled a 12-year-old boy because he feared the youngster was going to reveal their sexual relationship, a court heard yesterday.

Kevan Roberts, 52, then drove 50 miles to dispose of Thomas Marshall's body in undergrowth at a picnic area, it was alleged. He also dismantled the boy's bicycle and dumped it five miles from his home.

Roberts was charged with Thomas's murder more than a year later after a police constable found what the prosecution say is a vital piece of evidence. Inside the trap under the kitchen sink at Roberts's shop in the Norfolk village of Eccles, he found a tiny metallic bead said to come from a necklace Thomas was wearing when strangled.

Roberts was unable to explain how it got there, prosecutor Charles Wide, QC, said. Mr Wide said when Thomas disappeared from his home at Happisburgh after telling his parents he was going to meet a friend, he was really going to meet Roberts at his shop two miles away.

'The Crown's case is that during that meeting, perhaps because something happened to make Kevan Roberts fear that Thomas would tell others about what had gone on between them, he killed Thomas by strangling him,' added Mr Wide.

It was claimed that Roberts drove to the picnic spot, off the main A11 Norwich to London road at Roudham Heath, to dump Thomas's body.

The body was found the next day by a motorist who stopped to stretch his legs. A few hours earlier, the bicycle had been spotted by a woman driving by Brumstead common.

Mr Wide told Norwich Crown Court that Thomas, the only child of library archivist John, 52, and part-time librarian Carol, 48, was 'in some ways old for his age'. In the summer of 1997 Thomas began visiting bachelor Roberts's shop. Mr Wide said: 'Something of a sexual nature happened between Kevan Roberts and Thomas Marshall.'

Roberts, a homosexual, told police he had last seen Thomas at noon on the day he vanished. The court heard that the boy was last seen by his parents at around 5.3Opm.

Mr Wide added that Roberts had been open with police about his homosexuality, admitting he was attracted to adolescent boys and that he had talked about sex with Thomas.

Roberts denies murdering Thomas in August 1997. 

The trial continues.



