A SHOPKEEPER was arrested for the murder of a 12-year-old boy after police found a bead from the boy's necklace in his sink waste pipe, a court heard yesterday.

Kevan Roberts, 52, admitted being attracted to adolescent boys but denied any involvement in the death of Thomas Marshall, who was found strangled at a notorious meeting place for homosexuals, a jury was told.

He was charged with murder, however, after police found the chrome bead in pipework under his kitchen sink more than a year after the killing. Later, while on remand in prison, he admitted to a convicted paedophile that he had had a sexual relationship with the boy and that he had come 'very close to confessing to the crime', it was said.

Roberts strangled Thomas because he was scared he would lift the lid on their illicit sexual relationship, prosecutor Graham Wide suggested at Norwich Crown Court.

The two met when Roberts took over the general store in Eccles, a few minutes from the victim's home in the village of Happisburgh on the Norfolk coast.

During the summer of 1997, Thomas, the only child of a records archivist and housewife, was a regular visitor to the shop, where he and his friends would steal or beg tobacco and cigarettes, the court heard.

Over the months their relationship developed into 'something sexual' until it came to a violent end on August 21, 1997. After one secret liaison the schoolboy threatened to tell others and Roberts strangled him by twisting the collar of his T-shirt together with the cord of his necklace.

The cord, which had two chrome beads threaded on it, snapped and the boy died in about a minute.

Roberts tried to cover his tracks by dumping the boy's bike in undergrowth and leaving his body 50 miles away in a lay-by notorious as a homosexual meeting spot, off the A11 near Thetford.

Both the body and the bike were found the next day.

Police interviewed Roberts a number of times. But despite admitting he was one of the last people to see Thomas alive and that he found young boys sexually attractive officers could never pin the attack on him. Then, 13 months after the murder, they carried out another routine search of his home.

During the search they unhooked the sink trap in the kitchen, where they found one of the missing beads from the boy's necklace.

Roberts denied any sexual relationship with Thomas and said he had no idea how the bead happened to be in his home.

But while he was on remand he suggested to paedophile Roy Reynolds that he had a sexual relationship with the boy.

Mr Wide said the men discussed how having a sexual relationship with boys made you feel like you 'were over a barrel', scared they would tell others about the abuse.

Roberts told Reynolds he felt Thomas had been taking over his life. He hated him, said Mr Wide.

He also gave Reynolds the impression he was haunted by the death of the boy.

He said a police poster of Thomas on the wall of his shop would not leave him alone 'because the eyes would follow him wherever he went'. Mr Wide said: 'During the summer of 1997, Thomas went to the shop. Something of a sexual nature happened between Mr Roberts and Thomas.

'Precisely what, the prosecution cannot say. Only two people were present and one of them is dead. You may, however, come to the conclusion that Thomas was streetwise enough to try to exploit the situation but not so mature as to realise what he might be getting himself into.'

'It was during that meeting, perhaps because something happened to make Mr Roberts fear that Thomas would tell others about what had gone on, that Mr Roberts killed him.'

The court also heard that Roberts had bought some cannabis, saying he was having a friend over that evening and it would make the night 'go easier'. He later told

Reynolds he had heard cannabis made people sexually excited although he preferred not to use it himself as he liked to stay in control.

Thomas had asked Roberts if he could get him cannabis, the jury heard.

Mr Wide said: 'Is it just a coincidence that he (Roberts) had discussed drugs, including cannabis, with Thomas Marshall, who asked If he had any? Why did he mention sexual excitement in connection with cannabis?'

Roberts denies murder. 

The trial continues.



