A BOY of 12 was strangled by a gay shopkeeper who feared the child might tell police about his liking for youngsters, a court heard yesterday.

Schoolboy Thomas Marshall allegedly had a sexual relationship with 52 year-old Kevan Roberts. Prosecutor Charles Wide QC told the jury that Thomas visited Roberts's village shop about 20 times before his death. He added: 'Something of a sexual nature happened between Mr Roberts and Thomas, precisely what, the prosecution can't say.'

'Only two people were present and one of them is dead. You may come to the conclusion Thomas was streetwise enough to exploit the situation but not so mature as to realise what he might he getting himself into.'

Thomas vanished from his home in Happisburgh, Norfolk, in August 1997. His pink bike was found on a common five miles away and his body was discovered in a layby near Thetford, 50 miles from his home.

Roberts, who ran a general store at Eccles, denies murder.

Mr Wide said that during interviews Roberts was 'open with the police about being a homosexual who was attracted to adolescent boys'. But the shopkeeper insisted he had never had a relationship with such a boy.

After being charged with murder, Roberts allegedly told fellow prisoner Roy Reynolds - who was serving life for serious sexual offences - that he hated Thomas.

'He said he hated Thomas because he had it both ways, getting his pleasure and his money,' said the prosecutor. He also told Reynolds an intimate detail about Thomas's body which made it plain that 'something sexual' existed between them.

Roberts was having a gay affair with his cousin Peter Roberts, On the evening Thomas died he put off a meeting with his cousin because he had arranged to meet Thomas, said Mr Wide. Roberts had bought £7.50 worth of cannabis, telling his supplier it would help the evening go easier.

A year after the murder, said the prosecutor, a bead from a bootlace necklace worn by Thomas was found in a sink pipe at Roberts's home. Mr Wide added: 'Kevan Roberts can provide no explanation for the presence of the bead in his sink, there is no other reasonable explanation other than it came from Thomas Marshall's necklace.'

Police searched Roberts's home and found a poster with the date of the boy's death and his funeral date written on it. The shopkeeper allegedly told police that Thomas threatened to make up a story about being 'touched up' and tell the police. The prosecutor said Roberts had claimed: 'He used to call me a queer. I think it was to try to wind me up.'

Thomas's mother Carol told Norwich Crown Court that her son, an only child, had left home after tea, saying he was going to see a young friend.

The trial continues.