A HOMOSEXUAL village shopkeeper strangled a 12 year-old boy because he feared he would expose the sexual relationship between them, a court was told yesterday.

Kevan Roberts, 52, who admitted being attracted to adolescent boys, killed Thomas Marshall by grabbing his T-shirt collar and necklace and twisting them tight around his neck.

Over the previous months 'something sexual' had developed between the two, Charles Wide, QC, prosecuting, told a jury at Norwich Crown Court.

Thomas had become a frequent visitor to Granville Stores, Roberts's shop it Eccles on Sea, on the north Norfolk coast.

But that evening, after th young boy had cycled to his shop on a pre-arranged visit, Roberts killed Thomas because he possibly feared exposure, said Mr Wide.

Roberts then dismantled the boy's bicycle and threw it into a nearby fly-tip before travelling 50 miles to dump the boy's body on a lay-by or the A11, near Thetford. where homosexual men were known to meet.

Thomas's bootlace-style necklace had broken when he was strangled and two beads fell off.

Almost exactly year after Thomas was killed, police found a bead from the boy's necklace in the sink trap of Roberts's kitchen.

Roberts, who denies murder, was not able to explain how the bead got there.

Mr Wide told the jury that Thomas was killed in August two years ago when he had arranged to meet Roberts at his shop, a few miles from the boy's home in Happisburgh. He added: 'It was during that meeting - perhaps because something happened to make Roberts feel that Thomas would tell others about what had gone on between them - that he killed Thomas by strangling him.'

Thomas, who was described as a 'streetwise' child with a strong independent streak, was introduced to Roberts in the summer of 1997 through his friend, Adrian Smith, and they became frequent visitors to Granville Stores.

As they grew in confidence, the boys began stealing cigarettes and Roberts later admitted that he felt he was losing control of them.

Something sexual later developed between Roberts and Thomas, said Mr Wide. 'Precisely what, the prosecution cannot say. But you may come to the conclusion that Thomas was streetwise enough to try to exploit the situation, but not so mature as to realise what he might be getting himself into.'

While in custody, Roberts confided to Roy Reynolds, a convicted paedophile serving a life sentence for serious sexual offences, that he came to hate Thomas, that he felt he was taking over his life and that he felt the boy 'had it both ways - getting his pleasure and his money'.

Reynolds, in turn, told Roberts that he had once made the mistake of having oral sex with a boy and later feared exposure by him.

Mr Wide said: 'This defendant said that the situation was the same with Thomas, saying something like 'once that happens you are over a barrel'.

'The inference from this is plain. Something sexual happened between Thomas and Roberts, which made Roberts feel at a disadvantage in his dealings with Thomas.'

Mr Wide said Reynolds claimed that Roberts told him that he came 'very close to admitting the murder'.

He said: 'He also told Roy Reynolds that Thomas had taken less than a minute and a half to die.

'Was he saying what he knew from prosecution papers or did he know that detail because he was there?' The day that Thomas was killed, he left his home in Happisburgh, telling his mother he was going to see his friend, Adrian Smith, who lived near Roberts in Eccles.

In fact Thomas was planning to meet Roberts, who a day earlier had asked a neighbour if he could supply him with some cannabis because he was expecting a friend the following night and 'it might make the night go easier'.

Earlier Thomas had boasted of taking cannabis and had asked Roberts if he had any. Roberts had been told that smoking cannabis made people 'sexually excited' - Roberts prepared for the visit by telling his cousin Peter, who lived in Thetford, near to where the body of Thomas was found, and with whom he had had a sexual relationship for some time, that he could not visit him that night because it was not convenient.

After Thomas was killed, a poster was put up in Roberts's shop appealing for information about the boy's murder.

Roberts later told Roy Reynolds that the eyes of Thomas on the poster 'seemed to follow him wherever he went'.

A post-mortem examination showed that Thomas Marshall was strangled. He had bruises on his forearm and other marks which suggested that he had been transported head down in a vehicle.

He also had abrasions on his genitals which the prosecution said were consistent with them being 'grasped from behind'.

The case continues.



