A village shopkeeper strangled a 12-year-old with whom he had a sexual relationship because he feared the boy would expose him, a court heard yesterday.

Kevan Roberts, 52, was attracted to adolescent boys, and allegedly killed Thomas Marshall in under a minute by twisting a bootlace necklace around his neck. He killed the youngster in the kitchen behind his shop in Eccles, north Norfolk, in August 1977 because he felt he was 'losing control' over him, Norwich crown court was told.

Thirteen months later, police found a metal bead in the U-bend of Roberts' sink. The prosecution alleged that the bead, proven to be similar to those that had been on the necklace, had landed there when the necklace was twisted and broken as the boy died. Roberts denies a charge of murder.

The court was told 'something sexual' developed after they met in May or June 1997. As the relationship progressed, the 'superficially streetwise' boy began demanding cigarettes, drinks, and sweets, and teasing Roberts about his sexual orientation, the court heard. He also threatened to claim Roberts had 'touched him up' if he failed to give him fizzy pop, the shopkeeper told police in interviews.

Roberts began to feel at a disadvantage, Charles Wide QC, prosecuting, told the jury. Later he allegedly confessed to Roy Reynolds, a convicted paedophile serving a life sentence, whom he met while in prison on remand, that he hated the adolescent for having him 'over a barrel'.

While only two people knew the precise nature of the sexual relationship, 'and one of them is dead', the jury might conclude that 'Thomas was streetwise enough to try and exploit the situation, but not so mature as to realise what he might be getting himself into,' Mr Wide suggested.

On the evening of the murder, Thomas and Roberts had each falsely arranged to meet someone else.  Roberts obtained three joints of cannabis, which he hoped would sexually arouse the youngster, telling the neighbour who supplied the cannabis that it 'would make the night go easier.'

Thomas, meanwhile, lied to his mother and said he had arranged to meet a friend, Adrian Smith, 16. Shortly after 5.40pm, he left his home in the village of Happisburgh to cycle the two miles to Eccles. Within three hours, forensic tests showed, he was dead.

At noon the next day, his dismantled red bicycle was spotted in undergrowth by the side of a common, two miles from Roberts' home - a spot 'well-known to Roberts' and which he had passed the day previously.

At 5pm the same day, the boy's body was found in a lay-by frequented by gay men cruising for sex, at Roundham heath, 30 miles from Norwich in the south of the county. Roberts had put the body there to mislead the police, the prosecution alleged.

Mr Wide said forensic tests revealed genital bruising and that the 12-year-old had been 'strangled from behind, his collar and the necklace being seized and twisted'.

The necklace broke and two metallic beads came off - neither being found until September 1998 when a constable searching Roberts's home removed the sink trap and found one bead. 'Roberts wasn't able to explain how the bead got there,' Mr Wide added.

The trial continues today.



