A man who took on a contract killing and bungled it was jailed for life yesterday at Stafford crown court.

Matthew Lee, 53, agreed on a price of £5,500 to murder Clifford Jones, 35, when approached by Mr Jones's wife, Sandra, 38, and her best friend, Julie Harvey, 34.

The women, described as living in a fantasy world, decided on the plot after bumping into each other while shopping, the court had heard.

It failed when Lee, who had been given a key, sneaked into the semi in Uttoxeter where Mr Jones was asleep in bed and hit him over the head with a crowbar - but failed to kill him. Cut and bruised but alive, the husband fought with Lee in the bedroom and struggled with him down into the front garden, where Lee fled.

Detectives were not convinced it was a burglar who had attacked Mr Jones, and within days Sandra Jones had confessed, the court was told.

Lee denied conspiring to murder but was found guilty at the end of a two-week trial. After the verdict the court was told he had been convicted of murder in 1981 and served 17 years. Sentencing him, Judge Justice Kay said he was wicked and dangerous. 'You savagely attacked Clifford Jones. It is only fortunate that he lived. I have no doubt your only motive was money.'

Jones, 38, who claimed her husband was violent, pleaded guilty to the same charge, and was jailed for three years. 'Whatever the problems you had, nothing can have justified the action you took. I accept you were deeply unhappy,' the judge told her.

Harvey 34, of Uttoxeter, was jailed for 18 months after admitting conspiracy. The judge said she was 'totally misguided' to encourage her friend to hire a hitman.

Mr Justice Kay said the women seemed to be in a 'fantasy world'. The pair, former schoolfriends, hatched the plot after bumping into each other while shopping. Jones said she was extremely unhappy and claimed her husband was violent, the court heard. She stood to gain £96,000 from her husband's life insurance, but police did not believe money was her primary motive.

One attempt by Jones and Harvey to find someone to 'do Cliff over' came to nothing, but they persisted and approached Lee, a cleaner in a Uttoxeter pub, knowing he had been convicted of murder and had settled in the town to start a new life. He thought they were joking but eventually agreed when Jones took out a £6,00O loan to pay him.

Bernard Thorogood, prosecuting, said: 'The trio decided they would make the murder look like a burglary. Lee was given a key and they hatched a plan for him to enter the house after Sandra Jones left in the morning. Clifford Jones would have been asleep after his factory night shift.'

Lee bought a crowbar and last February he attacked Mr Jones. Sandra Jones had taken their daughter, 13, and son, eight, to school, expecting to find her husband dead when she returned. Instead, he was giving a statement to the police, nursing cuts and bruises from several blows to his head. Staffordshire police did not believe it was burglary because there was no forced entry. Within days they discovered Jones had been plotting with Lee.

DCI Peter Hall said: 'Sandra was arrested in front of Clifford in the kitchen. We wanted to speak to them separately, she wanted them to stay together. Clifford was virtually speechless. He said they had a turbulent marriage, but he never thought things were that bad. He had absolutely no suspicion his wife had anything to do with the attack.'

Mr Jones denies ever assaulting his wife, and the police say there is no evidence to support the claim.

He said last night: 'I find it hard to be bitter, with the children involved. They have already seen their mum taken away once, and now I have got to explain all this again.

'I have no real feeling for Lee; he had to go down as he is a danger to the public. But as far as Sandra goes, it should never have got this far.'


