A MOTHER of two young children who recruited a hitman to murder her husband was yesterday jailed for three years despite a plea for leniency from the man she tried to kill.

Clifford Jones, 35, said he got 'no satisfaction' from the sentence handed down to his wife Sandra and revealed he had written to the judge appealing for clemency.

'The law has to do what it has to do,' he said, 'but time will tell what effect it will have on the children. They have already seen their mum taken away once when she was on remand.'

Sandra Jones, 38, of Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, wept as she was sentenced for hiring a convicted killer to murder her husband as he lay asleep in bed. She stood to gain £96,000 from his death and had even discussed spending the windfall on a holiday with a friend.

Matthew Lee, 53, the man she hired to carry out the killing, was sentenced to life in prison for his part in the attack, while her friend Julie Harvey, 34, was jailed for 18 months for her part in the plot which Mr Justice Kay described as a 'wicked in the extreme'.

The judge said he had reduced Jones's sentence because of her immediate guilty plea and her husband's request for mercy.

'Whatever you may say about your husband, in your hour of desperate need he did what he could to assist you,' the judge said.

The court heard said the couple had been teenage sweethearts who married in 1986.

The plot followed a chance meeting late in 1998 when Jones was re-united with her former schoolfriend Harvey. She told Harvey that she was in a violent relationship.

Jones arranged loans of more than £18,000 to pay for the killing and made approaches to two possible hitmen before she and Harvey targeted Matthew Lee, an odd-job man at the White Horse Pub in Uttoxeter.

On the morning of February 18, 1999, Lee let himself into the Joneses' home in Beckdale, Uttoxeter, and attacked Clifford Jones, who was in bed, with a crow bar.

Mr Jones told the court he awoke to see a man armed with a crowbar at the end of his bed.

He suffered facial injuries requiring several stitches but fought off his assailant.

William Wood QC, defending Jones, said she was a 'cowering mouse' who had been subjected to domestic violence. This argument was, however, rejected by the judge who told the women that their friendship had turned a 'daft notion' in the back of Jones' mind into a reality.

He added: 'Both of you lived for a period in a state devoid of reality. I also think that it was unfortunate that you happened to bump into somebody like Matthew Lee, only too prepared to do your bidding.'

The judge told Lee, who was previously convicted of murder at the Old Bailey in 1981, that his attack on Mr Jones had been savage and it was 'good fortune' that his victim survived.

'You are a lethally dangerous man. In my judgement, you still remain a lethally dangerous man,' he said.

Speaking after the case, Mr Jones said he was 'sad' he would have to break the news of his wife's imprisonment to their 13-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son.

'I have no real feeling for Matthew Lee,' he said. 'He had to go down as he is a danger to the public, but as far as Sandra goes, it should never have got this far.'

He denied allegations made by Mrs Jones's barrister that he had thrown a knife at his wife and hit her with bowling balls.

