A HOUSEWIFE who hired a hit man to bludgeon her husband to death with a crowbar while he slept was jailed for three years yesterday.

Sandra Jones obtained a bank loan to fund the killing of her husband, Clifford, by hiring a man who had just completed a life sentence for murder.

But Matthew Lee, 53, bungled his attempt to kill Mr Jones at his home in Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, last February His intended victim survived to give evidence to police. Yesterday the judge, Mr Justice Kay, jailed Jones for three years for her part in what he termed 'an astonishing plan'.

Her co-conspirator and friend, Julie Harvey, 34, was jailed for 18 months for her part in the 'madcap' scheme. The two women's contract killer, Lee, was jailed for life.

The court was told Jones stood to gain financially from her husband's death and that she and Harvey, who has three children, had even discussed using the proceeds of the windfall to pay for a holiday.

The judge told the women, who both admitted conspiracy to murder, that their friendship had turned a 'daft notion' in the back of Jones' mind into reality. He added: 'Both of you lived or a period in a state devoid of reality. I also think that it was unfortunate that you happened to bump into somebody like Matthew Lee, only too prepared to do your bidding.'

The judge told Lee, who was convicted of murder at the Old Bailey in 1981,that his attack on Mr Jones had been savage and it was 'good fortune' that he survived. 'You are a lethally dangerous man. In my judgement, you still remain a lethally dangerous man. I have no doubt at all that the only motivation for you committing this offence was to make money for yourself,' he said. Lee, who was found guilty by a jury, was jailed for life under the 'two strikes and out' law governing serious offences. He will not be considered for release for at least five years.

Bernard Thorogood, for the prosecution, said the Joneses had been teenage sweethearts who married in 1986 and three years later moved into the semi-detached home where the attack was to take place.

The court was told Jones stood to gain a £96,000 pay-out from her husband's employer in the event of his death.

The prosecution said: 'She could not repay the £6,000 loan she took out to pay the proposed killer unless she had been paid out for his death.'

Jones recruited Lee after learning from a pub landlord that he was a convicted murderer. He agreed to carry out the killing for £1,500 immediately and £4,000 at about the time of the death.

Mr Jones told the court that he awoke to see a man armed with a crowbar at the end of his bed. He suffered severe facial injuries requiring several stitches but managed to fight off his assailant in the attack on 8 February.

Lee had been on a reconnaissance mission to the Joneses' home, plotting to disguise the killing as an apparent break-in. William Wood QC, for Sandra Jones, said she was a 'cowering mouse' who had been subjected to domestic violence, including being hit over the head with a bag containing two bowling balls.

Mr Wood said the plot had been a 'madcap folie a deux' in which Harvey's history of unhappy marriages fuelled Jones's bitterness towards her husband.

Robert Juckes QC, for Harvey said the plan had been ill-thought-out, with no regard to the consequences of being caught.

