A HUSBAND whose wife hired a hitman to kill him last night said he forgave her and did not rule out the possibility of them getting back together.

Clifford Jones, who was attacked in his sleep by a man wielding a crowbar 2ft-long, said: 'Who knows what the future will hold for us?

'It would be nice just to be able to communicate with her again, to talk to her and get to the bottom of this, and find out what went wrong.'

Redundant kitchen worker Sandra Jones, who was yesterday jailed for three years, took out a £12,500 loan to pay a hitman to kill her husband. However, arranging the murder did not go to plan. Two potential 'fixers' charged her £300 and £1,200 before backing out.

She finally arranged for convicted murderer Matthew Lee, 53, to kill her husband during a mock burglary at their home in Uttoxeter, Staffordshire.

But Mr Jones, 35, woke up when Lee hit him on the head with the metal rod. He wrestled the crowbar from his attacker and fled outside.

Lee, a self-employed painter and decorator, was arrested in London six days later. He was jailed for life at Stafford Crown Court yesterday at the end of a 10-day trial.

Julie Harvey, 34, a friend of Jones who helped her with the plot, was jailed for 18 months.

Judge Justice Kay said: 'The women lived in a fantasy world. I don't know what came over them to do it.'

Jones and her husband, a JCB driver, had been married for 13 years and had two children aged 13 and eight, the court heard.

Both admitted to police there had been stormy periods during their marriage. Mrs Jones claimed her husband assaulted her, but he denied it, and no complaints were ever lodged. Jones stood to gain £96,100 in life insurance after her husband's death. Detective Chief Inspector Peter Hall said that Mr Jones never had the slightest suspicion that his wife wanted him dead. 'He was very shocked by the whole affair,' he said. 'While he will admit that the marriage had its turbulent periods, he never thought it was that bad.'

Jones gave Lee a key to her back door and a photograph of her husband. She took a wallet containing £380 from the house to support the burglary claim.

But police found other cash around the house had not been touched, and were suspicious there was no sign of a forced entry Lee, who has six children from five different relationships, was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in 1981 for the murder of a man over a £125 debt.

Jones and Harvey, also from Uttoxeter, admitted conspiracy to murder before the start of Lee's trial. Lee denied it, but was convicted by the jury yesterday.
