AN embittered wife who offered a convicted murderer £5,500 to kill her husband so she could have 'a proper life with the kids' was jailed for three years yesterday after her husband sent a note to the judge pleading for leniency.

Clifford Jones, 35, said after the hearing that he still loves his wife, Sandra, 38, although she labelled him a wife-beater and said she 'just wanted him out of her life'. He added that he did not rule out reviving the marriage.

Jones admitted conspiring with her friend, Julie Harvey, 35, and a contract killer, Matthew Lee, 54, to murder her husband. Harvey was sentenced to 18 months while Lee, described by Mr Justice Kay as 'a lethal and dangerous man' was given a life sentence.

Stafford Crown Court heard that Lee tried to bludgeon Mr Jones to death in his bed when he turned in after returning from a factory night shift. But the scheme misfired. His victim awoke, started to fight back and the would-be paid assassin ran off.

Mr Jones's wife, who had gone to work, returned expecting to find a battered body in her bed. Instead she found her husband with cuts and bruises but alive and convinced that he had chased off a violent burglar.

Mr Jones, who is caring for the couple's two children, aged 13 and eight, disputes his wife's claims that he mistreated her during their marriage. The couple were childhood sweethearts and married in 1986.

Mr Justice Kay also expressed misgivings about the truth of her allegations which were not substantiated by evidence.

Mr Jones asked the judge not to impose a sentence that would separate his wife from their children longer than necessary. The judge told Jones: 'Whatever you may say about your husband, in your hour of desperate need he did what he could to assist you and it is a significant matter.'

He added that she could have faced 12 years in jail but he planned to make it the 'absolute minimum' of three. He weighed the 'wickedness' of her actions against her unhappiness at the time and the fact that she seemed to be living 'in a fantasy world'.

As his wife was being sentenced Mr Jones sat in a nearby public house because he could not bear to be in court.

He said: 'I always thought we had a reasonable marriage. It would be nice just to be able to talk to her and try to get to the bottom of this. Who knows what the future might hold for us?'

Dealing with Lee, a painter and decorator who was born in Montserrat in the Caribbean, Mr Justice Kay said that, even though the attack failed, it proved for the second time in his life that he was a danger to the public. The sole motive in Lee accepting the contract to kill was money, the judge said.

Both women admitted their roles in the conspiracy and turned Queen's evidence in the case against Lee. The judge said he found their approach hard to grasp. 'Neither of them seems to have a seriously impaired intellect - maybe it is a case of battered wife syndrome.

'I found listening to the evidence given by Sandra Jones very astonishing, something out of the ordinary. It was disarmingly frank - a woman talking about planning to kill her husband in such a dispassionate way.'

In the course of the 10-day hearing the jury heard how Jones approached three men to kill her husband, one of whom asked for £300 to buy a gun and another who suggested doing it with drugs. But it was Lee who put the plan into action with a wrecking bar as a weapon.

He was offered £1,500 downpayment and a further £4,000 after the killing, given a plan of Jones's house in Uttoxeter, Staffs, a photograph of his victim and taken on a familiarising tour of the district. Jones funded the scheme by taking out a bank loan, forging her husband's signature.

As well as hoping to start a new life, Jones would also have benefited by about £100,000 from her husband's death, receiving death benefits from his employers, £25,000 from life insurance policies and an annual widows pension of £5,000.

Lee was convicted at the Old Bailey in 1981 of killing a man over an unpaid bill. He was released on licence 18 months before his attack on Mr Jones.
