SUPERGRASSES claiming to have been short-changed in reward money for information passed to police have no right to sue, a High Court judge ruled yesterday.

Keith Robinson, an informant, had claimed more than £33,000 for alleged breach of contract against Customs and Excise, saying that he had given his minders details of criminal plots including one to smuggle 20 tons of cannabis into Britain.

Mr Robinson said that his information had led to the seizure of three-quarters of a ton of the drug but claimed he was not given the full sum he was promised.

In the first case of its kind Mr Justice Douglas Brown ruled that informants had no right to claim payments from police or Customs through the courts.

He said that if claims were made, there was a danger the authorities would be forced to settle rather than reveal other sources of their information or intelligence.

Mr Robinson, who ran a vehicle repair business in Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, was approached by a customer in 1994 about becoming involved in smuggling and was told he would be paid well for trips abroad, the judge said.

Mr Robinson agreed to store a Mercedes van at his premises but contacted customs officers who fitted it with a tracking device. He was told by the conspirators that the plan was to import 20 tons of cannabis from Italy.

The Mercedes was stopped at Dover in July 1994 and three-quarters of a ton of cannabis was seized. The van driver was later jailed for ten years. 

Mr Robinson claimed that an officer told him he would be paid 'handsomely' for his information and that £10,000 was mentioned - a figure denied by Customs.

Despite being paid only £6,500 he continued to tip off his minders and claimed his information led to French police making three arrests and seizing a substantial amount of drugs. 

He received a total of £9,150 in 'exceptional payments' and expenses but claimed that he was entitled to £33,574 plus interest. 

Mr Justice Brown, however, ruled that there was no legal contract between Mr Robinson and Customs and Excise. The judge, who described Mr Robinson as 'a highly unreliable witness', held he had not been promised 'handsome' rewards or promised any specific sums.

He granted Customs and Excise an order blocking Mr Robinson's claim on the ground that he had no reasonable prospect of success.