Supergrasses who claim they have been short-changed in rewards for information have no right to sue, a high court judge ruled yesterday.

The judgment was given in the case of Keith Robinson, an informant who claimed the sum of £33,574 with interest for an alleged breach of contract against customs and excise whom he said had promised him reasonable remuneration and expenses.

Mr Robinson, who ran a vehicle repair business in Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, alleged that his customs 'minders' had promised he would be handsomely rewarded after he agreed that a tracking device could be fitted in a Mercedes van that drug smugglers kept at his premises.

In the first case of its kind, Mr Justice Douglas Brown held that no contract existed and that, on grounds of public policy, 'an informant cannot maintain a claim against the commissioners [of customs and excise] or indeed a chief officer of police in respect to any reward for information supplied'.

Mr Robinson, who received just under £10,000 for information which led to the jailing of a drug smuggler for 10 years, complained that he had been promised that amount for the drugs conviction alone. He said he was owed far more for the help he gave in relation to an insurance fraud and other drugs offences.

He claimed he had at first only received £6,500 but had continued to provide information to customs, receiving a number of other payments, the highest of which was £500. In the end he had received a total of £9,150. He claimed he was 'short changed' and that he had a legally enforceable contract which entitled him to more.

The judge, held that Mr Robinson, whom he described as 'a highly unreliable witness', had not been promised handsome rewards or specific sums. He said there was 'no contract or any intention to create legal relations'.

Customs and excise denied that the money had been offered for the information leading to that arrest.

The judge said that when Mr Robinson had initially agreed to assist the customs officers and provide information he would have regarded any suggestion that he might mount a court fight over payment as 'wholly inimical to his personal safety'.

Mr Robinson had been told he could not receive a wage for being an informant and that he would only be paid through the reward system operated by customs. To allow an informant to sue would involve the court in an examination of sensitive matters and the 'unthinkable' disclosure of information, normally subject to public interest immunity, in the presence of a claimant 'who was either a criminal or on the fringes of crime', the judge said.

The judge added that unscrupulous informants might bring claims with little or no merit with the object of forcing the authorities to settle rather than of revealing sources of information. The judge granted customs and excise an order blocking the claim on the ground that he had no reasonable prospect of success. After the tracking device had been fitted in the Mercedes van, Mr Robinson was told by conspirators that the plan was to import 20 tons of cannabis into Britain from Italy. The van was stopped at Dover in July 1994 and threequarters of a ton of the drug was seized.

The driver was convicted and jailed for 10 years. Mr Robinson claimed that his information had led to French police making three arrests and also seizing large amounts of drugs.
