A FARMER who hit out in self-defence after a hunt saboteur attacked him with a baseball bat was backed by three senior judges yesterday. They said Bill Kirkby, 55, had the right to protect himself, and overturned a £52,000 damages award to animal rights militant Harry Cross.

The Court of Appeal judges said the saboteur had been 'looking for a fight' while the farmer's first reaction had been to get help from the police, then to try to walk away. Mr Kirkby praised the decision, but said he was bitter at the way the legal system had handled his case. Police had refused to prosecute his attacker then he had found himself ordered to pay damages by a civil court for 47-year-old Mr Cross's injuries.

A spokesman for the Countryside Alliance said: 'This case should never have got so far, but it is a credit to the persistence of Mr Kirkby and his solicitors that justice has been done. All too often saboteurs get away with attacks on law-abiding country people, and this is not the first time that such attacks have resulted in the victim, not the aggressor being pursued in the courts.' Solicitors for jobless Mr Cross, who was on legal aid, said he was considering an appeal to the House of Lords.

The clash between farmer and activist happened after Mr Cross and his partner Margaret Davis entered Mr Kirkby's Lincolnshire farm in 1992 to disrupt a hunt meeting. Mr Kirkby tried to escort Miss Davis away, and she bit him. Mr Cross punched and kicked the farmer, threatening to kill him, then took a baseball bat from his cat Mr Kirkby asked a neighbour to call police and tried to walk away. But Mr Cross followed and hit him on the shoulder and arm. The farmer managed to wrestle the 2ft bat away and hit Mr Cross a single blow on the side of the head. He suffered a fractured skull and has since had epileptic fits. Last year a High Court judge ruled that he was entitled to damages because Mr Kirkby had used excessive force, and could not plead self-defence.

But yesterday Lord Justice Judge said Mr Kirkby's actions could not be labelled unreasonable or an over-reaction. He said: 'You have to be realistic, and if he has to use more force than was strictly necessary to defend himself, that should not prevent him using the defence of self defence.'

He said Mr Kirkby had struck only one blow 'not in revenge, or to teach him a lesson or give him a good hiding', but in the entirely justified belief that he was racing a severe threat of further violence. He had not swung the bat or raised it above his head, and had thrown it away afterwards. Even then, said the judge, Mr Cross tried to retrieve the weapon for another attack, despite his injury. Lord Justice Beldam said Mr Cross committed several 'serious criminal offences' before Mr Kirkby bit him, including assault and affray and the courts should not let him benefit from them. As Mr Cross, was legally aided, taxpayers will now have to meet Mr Kirkby's legal costs as well. Mr Kirkby, a tenant farmer said last night: 'Harry Cross did suffer serious injuries but nobody made him do what he did. I never intended it. Cross is the author of his own misfortune. 'I have been subjected to an enormous injustice all the way through. First the police declined to prosecute the man who attacked me. Then the legal aid board gave this man legal aid to pursue the claim. The court of appeal has very, very robustly stepped in to stop an injustice.'

Mr Cross, a vegan, has been engaged in 'direct action' for 20 years, and has clashed with the law several times. In 1987 he was charged with conspiracy to cause criminal damage to the home of a hunt master, but found not guilty. In 1991 he and Miss Davis were found guilty by magistrates of a breach of the peace - but a crown court quashed the convictions. 

Mr Cross, from Suffolk, spelled out his beliefs in 1983, when he won election to the ruling committee of the Hunt Saboteurs Association. His manifesto declared: 'We have to accept realism, not idealism. Direct action saves lives, not meat-eating vote-catching politicians who don't give a damn about humans let alone animals.'