A HUNT saboteur yesterday lost the £52,000 damages he won from a farmer who retaliated after he was attacked with a baseball bat.

Three Court of Appeal judges ruled that farmer William Kirkby was acting in self-defence when he wrested away the bat and struck Harry Cross on the side of the head, fracturing his skull.

Lord Justice Beldam said the injury; which has led to Mr Cross suffering epileptic fits, was a result of his own 'criminal and unlawful' acts in threatening and attacking Mr Kirkby.

A High Court judge sitting in Grimsby last year had ruled that Mr Cross was entitled to the damages because Mr Kirkby, of Swallow Lane, Wootton, North Lincolnshire, had used excessive force and the defence of acting in self-defence was not open to him.

But Lord Justice Beldam said Judge Richard Inglis, when he made his ruling, overlooked the fact that Mr Kirkby 'had done what he thought was necessary in the anguish of the moment' when he was being attacked.

Lord Justice Judge said Mr Kirkby, 55, should not have been expected to measure the violence he meted out to 47-year-old Mr Cross with 'mathematical precision' to comply with the law.

Mr Cross, of Halesworth, Suffolk, and his partner, Margaret Davis, were on Mr Kirkby's land in October 1992 during a meeting of the Brocklesby Hunt, intending to disrupt it.

Mr Kirkby, who had had to give up hunting after a fall from a horse injured his shoulder, escorted Miss Davis off his land. The farmer had used 'reasonable force' to remove her after she bit him and sat on the ground but Mr Cross, a hunt saboteur for 20 years, threatened to kill Mr Kirkby said Lord Justice Beldam.

Mr Cross punched and kicked the farmer on his way to his car parked nearby, from which he took a baseball bat and from which Miss Davis took a metal bar.

Lord Justice Judge said Mr Cross 'became abusive and threatening' and in a rage smashed the bat into the ground, breaking it along its 24-inch length. Mr Kirkby was 'thoroughly alarmed' - by Mr Cross's behaviour and asked a neighbour to call the police as Mr Cross pushed him into a hedge with the bat.

The farmer tried to walk away but was hit twice by Mr Cross, 'who was looking for a fight', on the arm and shoulder. When Mr Kirkby retaliated, he grabbed the bat and without swinging it or raising it above his head, hit Mr Cross a single blow. Lord Justice Judge said the blow was 'not in revenge, or to teach him a lesson or give him a good hiding', but the farmer had believed he was facing a severe threat of further violence and was trying to defend himself.

Mr Cross's original award had been reduced from an agreed £130,000 because Judge Inglis had ruled that the saboteur was 60 per cent to blame for the injury.

He was legally aided throughout the court battle and the legal aid board will now have to pay Mr Kirkby's court costs.