A HUNT saboteur awarded £52,000 damages against a farmer who hit him during a tussle with a baseball bat had the money stripped from him by the Court of Appeal yesterday.

Three judges ruled that the farmer, William Kirkby, was acting in self-defence when he wrested away the bat and struck Harry Cross on the side of the head, fracturing his skull.

Lord Justice Beldam said the injury, which has led to Mr Cross suffering epileptic fits, was a result of his own 'criminal and unlawful' acts in threatening and attacking Mr Kirkby.

After the case, Mike McNally, a solicitor who specialises in representing huntsmen and field sport enthusiasts, said the ruling sent a 'clear message' to saboteurs that if they provoked hunt supporters, it would be difficult to seek compensation for any injuries.

The judges overturned the ruling by Judge Richard Inglis in Grimsby last year that Mr Kirkby had used excessive force and could not claim he was acting in self-defence.

Lord Justice Beldam said the judge, when he made his ruling, overlooked the fact that Mr Kirkby 'had done what he thought was necessary in the anguish of the moment' when he was being attacked.

Another appeal judge, Lord Justice Judge, said Mr Kirkby, 56, of Wootton, Lincs, should not have been expected to measure the violence he meted out to Mr Cross with 'mathematical precision'.

The court was told that Mr Cross, 47, of Halesworth, Suffolk, and his girlfriend, Margaret Davis, were on Mr Kirkby's land in October 1992 during a meeting of the Brocklesby Hunt, intending to disrupt it. The farmer, a former member of the hunt, had used 'reasonable force' to remove Miss Davis from his land after she bit him and sat on the ground but Mr Cross, a hunt saboteur for 20 years, threatened to kill Mr Kirkby, said Lord Justice Beldam.

Mr Cross punched and kicked the farmer on his way to his car parked nearby, from which he took a baseball bat and Miss Davis took a metal bar. Lord Justice Judge said Mr Cross 'became abusive and threatening' and in a rage smashed the bat into the ground, breaking it along its 24in length. Mr Kirkby was 'thoroughly alarmed' by Mr Cross's behaviour and asked a neighbour to call the police as Mr Cross pushed him into a hedge with the bat.

The farmer tried to walk away but was hit twice by Mr Cross, 'who was looking for a fight', on the arm and shoulder. When Mr Kirkby retaliated, he grabbed the bat and without swinging it or raising it above his head, hit Mr Cross a single blow. Lord Justice Judge said this was 'not in revenge, or to teach him a lesson or give him a good hiding'. But the farmer believed he was facing a threat of further violence and was trying to defend himself. 'These beliefs were entirely justified. The blow ended the fight and the bat was thrown out of harm's way,' the judge said.

'Although seriously injured, the claimant [Mr Cross] was prepared to continue the fight and tried to retrieve the bat which was picked up by a witness.'

He said the trial judge had been wrong to 'weigh too nicely' the degree of force used by Mr Kirkby when defending himself while he was under attack. 

'It is not fair to stand back and say that was too much force and that was not self-defence. You have to be realistic and if he has to use more force than was strictly necessary to defend himself, that should not prevent him using the defence of self-defence.'

Lord Justice Beldam said Mr Cross had committed several ''serious criminal offences' before Mr Kirkby hit him. He had an offensive weapon, had caused an affray, had threatened to kill Mr Kirkby and had assaulted him causing bodily harm. Although Mr Cross was continuing to attack the farmer, Mr Kirkby was 'clearly seeking to avoid further confrontation' and had to protect himself from further violence.

The judge said the courts should not permit Mr Cross to benefit from what were criminal offences on his part and appear to 'turn a blind eye' to his serious attack on Mr Kirkby.

Mr Cross's original award been reduced from an agreed £130,000 because Judge Inglis had ruled that the saboteur was 60 per cent to blame for the injury.  He was legally aided throughout the court battle and the Legal Aid Board will now have to pay costs of more than £200,000.