A MAN fined for a road rage incident has had his conviction quashed and will face a retrial after a magistrate fell asleep while listening to his case.

Timothy Price, 26, from North Leigh, Oxfordshire, was fined £500 after being found guilty at Witney Magistrates' Court of causing fear of violence after an alleged dispute with a woman over a car parking space in the Oxfordshire town. But during the hearing Tim Brown, for the defence, said that he noticed the magistrate, who has not been named, had fallen asleep after he had finished addressing the court.

He said: 'We pointed it out to the court clerk later. They held their own investigation, found it was true and offered a retrial.' Recalling the incident, in July, he said: 'I was waiting for him to open his eyes, thinking perhaps he was just pondering. But I realised he had dozed off when he had to he woken up by the lady chairman. She shook him slightly and he smiled. He obviously had been asleep. I don't think it was for long but it is only fair to have a retrial.'

On the decision not to identify the magistrate involved, Mr Brown added: 'I have some sympathy for him. We all nod off from time to time. I would certainly not encourage a witch-hunt.' Bill White, a spokesman for the Crown Prosecution Service, confirmed yesterday that the conviction could not stand in view of what happened and a new trial would be held next month.

He added: 'It's the first time I have heard of such a case.' It was unclear yesterday whether the magistrate would face disciplinary action. A spokesman for the Lord Chancellors Office, which appoints and dismisses magistrates. said the
matter had been referred to the area's Magistrates' Court Committee. The alleged victim, Sandy Strover, from Witney, said she felt let down by the system. 'Giving evidence was such a bad experience which I do not want to go through again.' She added: 'If a magistrate fell asleep I can see the man did not have a fair trial.' She said the magistrate should be identified. 'It was a public court. It's public money that pays for the courts.'

