David Trimble, Northern Ireland's First Minister, is to give evidence in London's High Court to answer allegations that he was associated with a loyalist group known as 'The Committee' that conspired to murder Catholics, a jury heard yesterday.

The Nobel Peace Prize winner is being called as a witness for The Sunday Times, which is being sued for libel by an independent television producer, Sean McPhilemy, 52.

Mr McPhilemy claims his career was ruined after the newspaper branded his Channel 4 Dispatches documentary, The Committee, about Northern Ireland death squads, as a 'hoax'.

The programme claimed that there was collusion between the security forces and loyalist terrorists in Ulster to kill Roman Catholics, and was based mainly on an account by James Sands, a loyalist who claimed to have been a member of a committee of policemen, businessman and terrorists who plotted the murders.

Andrew Caldecott, QC, for the newspaper, told the libel jury that the programme, broadcast in 1991, was 'disgraceful', a 'simple distortion. A collage of unsubstantiated rumours and fabrications. In plain English, a scissors and paste job'. He added: 'What was important was what was left on the cutting room floor.'

Mr Trimble had not been mentioned in the programme, but Mr McPhilemy had also written a book, published only in America in March 1998, in which he named 50 or 60 people who, he claimed, made up a central committee of Protestant police officers, businessmen, politicians and lawyers who were guilty of being associated with murders.

He also wrote that 10 years ago Mr Trimble was 'knowingly associating with and assisting those responsible for the murder of his own constituents, victims of The Committee, such as the three innocent Catholic teenagers, Denis Carville, Eileen Duffy, Katrina Rennie and the 29-year-old customer shot dead as he approached a mobile sweet shop in Craigavon, Brian Frizzell.

'None of these victims were members of Trimble's 'Ulster British nation', wrote Mr McPhilemy, 'but all four of them, like many other Catholics killed in his constituency, were murdered by his friends on The Committee within just one year of his entry to the House of Commons in May 1990.'

Turning to the jury Mr Caldecott said: 'Did Mr McPhilemy stoop to make one telephone call to Mr Trimble before publishing that about him. No he did not.

'What evidence did he have for that appalling charge when he published it? I suggest he had no evidence worthy of the name.'

He added that the jury would be hearing from Mr Trimble 'in due course'.

The hearing continues.
