A FATHER spoke out angrily last night after the driver who left his teenage daughter dying in the road was jailed for four months. Skinhead James Billman, 22, could be free after only two months if he shows good behaviour in prison.

Billman had drunk four pints of lager a few hours before his car ran down 15-year-old Loma Yeomans. He did not stop but drove to a nightclub and drank himself into a stupor, Norwich magistrates were told yesterday. Billman gave himself up 30 hours later. The time lapse made it impossible for police to find out how much alcohol he had in his system when his Hyundai Pony hit Lorna, who had been crossing a road in Drayton, Norwich, with friends. Officers established that Billman had not been speeding and was on the correct side of the road.

He was charged with failing to stop at the scene of the accident on October 9 last year, and failing to report the accident within 24 hours. Stipendiary magistrate Patrick Heley said the maximum prison sentence he could pass for the offences was six months, but he gave Billman credit for his pleas of guilty and sentenced him to four months on each of the offences, to run concurrently. Billman, who was banned from driving for 18 months in October 1996, was also disqualified from driving for another two years.

Nick Methold prosecuting, said: 'He admitted when he gave himself up that he had hit a human being and admitted he had been drinking earlier.'

Biiman's solicitor Chris Brown told the court: 'He was aware of a group of people at the corner of a field. At no time was he aware of an impending accident.'

Mr Heley told Billman, of Dereham, Norfolk: 'You left the young girl who you knocked down to her fate, taking no steps to help her.'

'You made it impossible for police to ascertain the level of alcohol in your system at the time the accident took place.'

'None of the offences involves any criticism of your driving and I have to disregard that.'

After the case Lorna's father Norman, 52, said: 'I am disappointed about what amounts to a two-month sentence for killing my daughter.

'How is it that he didn't see my daughter if he was paying attention? He would have seen her surely, but there was no evidence that he braked or swerved.'

The family will now try to pursue a civil claim against Billman for damages. The case comes a day after another skinhead, 23-year-old Andrew Deveson, was jailed for five years for jumping a red light at 100 mph and causing a fireball crash in which another driver was killed.

Diana Chamberlain, 34, died after she was thrown 60ft from her vehicle by the Impact - her body ablaze after her petrol tank burst into flames.

Her parents criticised the sentence on Deveson, from Brockworth, Gloucestershire, who has a string of motoring convictions dating from when he was 12.
