A CRUEL nursery school owner hated children from poor families and subjected them to a three-year reign of terror, a court heard yesterday.

Gloria Price, 58, allegedly tied a three-year-old boy to a chair, picked a youngster up by the hair and punished others by forcing their mouths shut on their arms, in some cases leaving bite marks.

But the tots - aged between four months and four years - were only mistreated if they were not well off, it was claimed. Prosecutor David Aubrey said: 'She hated parents on social benefits. It was a class thing with her.'

Price, who had no qualifications or special training, set up the Play Time Nursery six years ago, but started axing staff and cutting the quality and quantity of food, the court was told.

Mr Aubrey said: 'The impression a number of staff had was she enjoyed a preoccupation with making money.'

Price is also alleged to have:

OFTEN picked up a child by an arm, swing it and then dropped it on to the floor or into a playpen.

FORCE-FED children as young as 12 months who refused their food

HIT a child on the head with a hardback book until it cried

LEFT a toddler suspended by its chin when it slipped from a high chair.

Mr Aubrey added: 'She would force them to eat by tipping a child's head backwards and spooning food into its mouth. She persisted even when they were chocking, gagging and even vomiting.'

Tyrant Price, whose nursery closed in March last year, stopped staff helping the child who slipped from the chair and called kitchen workers to come and watch with 'a degree of amusement', said Mr Aubrey.

He described to the jury how staff branded her 'overbearing, a hard woman, a real tyrant, cruel, a hard and dominant bully who frightened both the children and the employees'.

He said they felt she was 'false and two-faced towards parents'.

'Within the confines of the nursery her treatment of them was markedly different,' said Mr Aubrey.

'She would target certain children for her ill-treatment because she disliked their parents' social standing. If they were professional, or well-off, she had a certain attitude. But those who were manual or factory workers were frequently treated in an entirely different fashion.'

Price, of Brecon, Powys, denies 14 charges of cruelty between November 1995 and March 1999.

The trial continues at Merthyr Crown Court, South Wales.



