A NURSERY owner tied up restless children and force-fed them until they were sick, a court heard yesterday.

Margaret Price, 58, was accused of hitting, humiliating and frightening children as young as four months.

She was described as a 'tyrant' who imposed a 'culture of fear'.

The children of unemployed parents were selected for ill-treatment at the Playtime Nursery in Brecon, Mid Wales, Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court was told.

David Aubrey, QC, prosecuting, described Price, who faces 14 charges of cruelty, as 'two-faced'.

He said: 'Price gave an appearance of being caring and kind but it was a front - her staff described her as an 'overbearing and horrible woman'. 

'Her staff called her a tyrant who frightened and intimidated her employees and it created within the nursery a culture of fear. The impression her staff had was that Price enjoyed a preoccupation with making money. She was false and two-faced.'

The court heard that Price tied one child to a chair with a scarf because he refused to sit still. Other children had food forced down them when they refused to eat until they gagged, choked and vomited.

Mr Aubrey said: 'One boisterous child was struck across the head with a hardbacked book until he cried. In another incident Price laughed as a child was entangled and suspended by her chin in a high chair.

'She refused to let members of staff free the girl and would forbid her staff to cuddle or comfort the other children, telling them, 'We don't do it that way'. If the child was from wealthy parents then she would treat them in a particular way. But the children whose parents were on benefits were treated in an entirely different fashion. The impression was she hated them. Those children were targeted for ill-treatment because she disliked their parents' social standing.'

In another incident, it is alleged that she told a three-year-old boy who could not say his alphabet: 'You are like a fat, lazy pudding.'

The court was also told that she forced a girl to bite her own hand. It was alleged that Price forced up the child's chin while saying: 'This will teach you what it feels like.'

Price, the wife of a Brecon solicitor, had no child care qualifications when she set up the nursery six years ago. The nursery was investigated by Dyfed-Powys social services after complaints from staff and parents. Price, of Felinfach, near Brecon, denies child cruelty. She told police that people had made up the allegations.

The trial continues.



