A NURSERY boss singled out toddlers from poor families in a reign of cruelty and violence, a court heard yesterday.

Margaret Price tied a three-year-old to a chair, hit a boy over the head with a book for not listening and force-fed others until they vomited, the jury was told. She targeted children as young as 12 months whose parents were on low incomes or on social benefits, said David Aubrey, QC, prosecuting.

Price, 58, who had no childcare qualifications or training when she started the Playtime nursery in, Brecon, South Wales, pleads not guilty to 14 charges of child cruelty to six children between November 1995 and March 1999.

She hit a young boy over the back of the head with a hard book because he would not listen to a story and forced a girl to bite her own hand, a jury at Merthyr Crown Court heard.

It is also claimed she told a three-year-old boy: 'You are like a fat, lazy pudding that doesn't taste very nice', because he could not say his alphabet. Price, was said to have grabbed the hair of another child so tightly that the child's scalp could be seen to lift.

Mr Aubrey said Price, the wife of a solicitor, singled out children from poor families 'because she disliked their parents' social standing'. He added: 'She hated the parents on social benefits. It was a class thing with her.' She was also 'false and two-faced towards parents', being 'as nice as pie' when they collected their children.

Price was described by staff as 'overbearing, a hard woman, a real tyrant, cruel, a hard and dominant bully who frightened children and employees'.

Children aged four months to four years were vulnerable. Price was seen often to pick up a child by one arm, swing it, and then drop it on to the floor, the court heard. It is also alleged she would not let staff help a girl in distress who had slipped down from her high chair and caught her chin on the table.

After her arrest Price told police the allegations had been invented.

The case continues.



