TO parents who entrusted their babies and toddlers to her, she appeared the epitome of a perfect nursery boss - kind and caring.

But behind their backs Margaret Price was responsible for a catalogue of cruelty - humiliating, frightening and abusing children and laughing at their pain, it was alleged yesterday.

The 58-year-old tied up restless children and force fed infants as young as four months until they were physically sick, singling out those from poor families for 'deliberate criminal ill-treatment', a court was told.

She also frightened and bullied her staff who described her as a 'horrible, overbearing, cruel tyrant who ruled in a culture of fear' and was interested only in making money.

Her four-year reign of terror ended only after she was unmasked by a surprise inspection from social services, it was claimed.

Yesterday, at the beginning of a trial that is expected to last four weeks, the blonde, smartly-dressed mother of one stood impassively in the dock at Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court as she faced 14 charges of cruelty to six boys and girls between November 1995 and March 1999.

Price set up the Playtime Nursery, in Brecon, Mid Wales, in 1994 and managed it herself despite having no qualifications or special training in child care, said David Aubrey, QC, prosecuting.

At any one time she cared for 44 children aged between four months and four years.

At first the nursery was properly run, with adequate staff-children ratios. 'But the reality altered as time went by,' he said. 'The impression that a number of staff had was that she enjoyed a preoccupation with making money.'

While she kept up a 'front' of caring, staffing levels were reduced and Price cut the quality and quantity of food, she would be 'as nice as pie' when parents dropped off or collected children. 'But it was done for a show,' Mr Aubrey said, describing her as 'false and two-faced'.

'Within the confines of the nursery her treatment of them was markedly different,' he said. 'By her treatment of some of the children in her charge she demonstrated a deliberate criminal ill-treatment.'

In what he described as a 'particularly serious and unpleasant' allegation, she laughed when a toddler slipped from a high chair and was left suspended by her chin.

'She refused to let members of staff free the girl and would forbid her staff to cuddle or comfort the other children telling them 'We don't do it that way',' he said,

Price was often seen to pick up a child by one arm, swing it, and then drop it on to the floor or into a playpen.

If one child bit another she would force the Infant's hand into its mouth and push the teeth closed, sometimes so hard that it left teeth marks on the flesh,

Children who would not eat were allegedly force fed, said Mr Aubrey. 'She would force them to eat by tipping a child's head backwards and spooning food into its mouth,' he said.

'She persisted even when they were choking, gagging and even vomiting.' Once she grabbed a little girl's hair so hard that her scalp was seen to lift, it was claimed.

A boisterous three-year-old boy was tied with a scarf to a chair for 'a substantial amount of time', Another child was repeatedly struck on the head with a hard book and she allegedly told a three-year-old boy who could not say his alphabet: 'You are like a fat, lazy pudding that doesn't taste very nice.'

She also told one member of staff that an overweight little boy 'disgusted' her, said Mr Aubrey. He told the jury that the treatment Price meted out depended on the status of their parents.

'If the child was from wealthy parents or if they were professional or well off then she would treat them in a particular way,' he said. 'But the children whose parents were on state benefits were treated in an entirely different fashion. She would target certain children for her ill-treatment because she disliked their parents' social standing. The impression was she hated them.' 

Mr Aubrey said that when a parent challenged Price over the hair pulling incident involving her daughter the nursery owner responded by claiming that another member of staff had done it and that she had taken care of the matter.

Price was arrested after Dyfed-Powys social workers held an inspection following complaints from staff and parents.

She told police that none of the allegations was true and claimed people were 'making it all up', the court was told Price, of Felinfach near Brecon, denies all the charges of cruelty.

The judge told the jury members they would hear from as many as 160 witnesses, 89 of them for the prosecution.

The trial continues.



