A NURSERY school owner was a 'cruel, hard and two-faced' woman who targeted children from poor families for ill-treatment, a jury heard yesterday.

Gloria Price, 58, tied a three-year-old child to a chair with a scarf because he was boisterous and force-fed other children until they vomited, Merthyr Crown Court in South Wales was told.

'She hated parents on social benefits,' David Aubrey, for the prosecution, said. 'It was a class thing with her.'

Mrs Price, of Brecon, Powys, denies 14 charges of cruelty to six boys and girls between November 1995 and March 1999.

Mr Aubrey said that Mrs Price formed the Play Time Nursery in Brecon despite having no qualifications or special training. At first the nursery was run properly, with adequate staff-to-children ratios - but the reality altered as time went by', Mr Aubrey said. 'The impression a number of staff had was that she enjoyed a preoccupation with making money.'

Staffing levels were reduced and Mrs Price cut the quality and quantity of food, it was alleged. 'By her treatment of some of the children in her charge, she demonstrated a deliberate criminal ill-treatment,' he told the court. Mrs Price was seen to pick up a child by one arm, swing it and then drop it on to the floor or into a play pen. 

He said that when a child bit another, she would force the child's hand into its mouth and push the teeth closed, saying: 'This will teach you what it feels like.' She grabbed the hair of another child so tightly that the child's scalp could be seen to lift, it was claimed.

 In another case, a boisterous little boy, aged 3, was tied with a scarf to a chair for 'a substantial amount of time'. Children from the age of 12 months who would not eat were said to have been force-fed. Mr Aubrey said: 'She would force them to eat by tipping a child's head backwards and spooning food into its mouth. She persisted even when they were choking, gagging and even vomiting. Another child was struck on the head with a hard book.'

Mr Aubrey told the jury of a 'particularly serious and unpleasant' allegation when a toddler slipped from a high chair and was left suspended by its chin. He said Mrs Price's response was to prevent staff from going to help - instead she called kitchen staff to come and see what had happened with 'a degree of amusement'. 

Staff described Mrs Price as 'false and two-faced towards parents', he added. She would be 'as nice as pie' when they dropped off or collected children. But it was 'done for a show. Within the confines of the nursery, her treatment of them was markedly different.' 

He said that staff described her as 'overbearing, a real tyrant, cruel, a hard and dominant bully who frightened children and the employees.' 

Mr Aubrey added: 'She would target certain children for her ill-treatment because she disliked their parents' social standing. 'If they were professional, or well-off, she had a certain attitude, but those who were manual or factory workers were frequently treated in an entirely different fashion.'

After her arrest, Mrs Price told police the allegations were untrue. 

The case continues.



