The whistle-blower who revealed abnormally high death rates among tiny babies at the Bristol Royal infirmary yesterday denied having told a hospital executive that he would keep quiet for a price.

Consultant Stephen Bolsin arrived in Bristol as a young anaesthetist in the late 1980s. He told the public inquiry in Bristol yesterday that he immediately realised that death rates among babies in heart surgery were higher than to be expected, and that operations took longer. He claimed he had raised his concerns with the hospital trust on various occasions, but was warned off and nothing was done; eventually, in desperation at the needless deaths, he went to the press.

On the first day of Dr Bolsin's evidence to the inquiry Brian Langstaff QC, counsel to the inquiry, put it to him that he had asked for compensation for constructive dismissal.

Dr Bolsin said he had tried, and failed, to get posts away from Bristol but felt he had been blackballed by the British medical community and left for Australia. Before he left, he approached Hugh Ross, chief executive of the United Bristol Healthcare Trust, and told him he no longer felt a 'valued member' of the hospital, and asked whether he would qualify for a 'relocation or disruption of life allowance'.

'You never threatened to go to the press if you didn't get an ex-gratia payment, putting it crudely?' asked Mr Langstaff. Dr Bolsin said he did not.'

Mr Langstaff summarised the position as 'pay me some money and I will keep quiet. I will not go public. If you don't pay me, I will.' Dr Bolsin replied: 'I don't think that was the position I was taking, I was saying 'I think I deserve to be compensated and I think you should have a look at that'.

The inquiry follows the referral of three doctors to the General Medical Council. Last year the senior children's heart surgeon, James Wisheart, and the trust chief executive, John Roylance, were struck off the medical register, while the junior surgeon, Janardan Dhasmana, was suspended from operating on children.

Earlier, Dr Bolsin made a personal statement to the parents of children who underwent surgery and especially those who died. In tears, he said: 'For me, they were all individual children who had families. I'm very sorry for what happened to them.'

He told the inquiry that he believed the hospital carried on with complex heart surgery for financial reasons, for the extra money from the department of health, although there had been discussions about stopping so as to assess what was going wrong.

When he wrote raising his concerns to Dr Roylance, he was summoned to the office of Dr Wisheart. 'He made it quite clear to me that this wasn't the way I should carry on,' Dr Bolsin said; Dr Wisheart was very angry, and suggested Dr Bolsin's future at Bristol would be in jeopardy if he did. Dr Wisheart denies the meeting took place.

The inquiry continues.



