THE man who exposed the babies heart op scandal wept yesterday for the 29 children who died.

Anaesthetist Stephen Bolsin, 47, choked beck tears as he expressed his sympathy to their parents.

Mr Bolsin told a public inquiry that Bristol Royal Infirmary's cardiac unit was like 'a train which kept going, even though passengers were failing off.'

And he claimed hospital chiefs continued risky ops on babies - ignoring high death rates - to make sure the unit kept its special status and extra funding.

The public inquiry is investigating the treatment of child heart patients at the BRI from 1983 to 1995. Many of the victims' parents are watching the hearing from a packed public gallery.

Mr Bolsin struggled to compose himself as he said: I sympathise enormously with the parents who have been through the situation of cardiac open heart surgery and complex paediatric surgery.

'And for those parents, whose children did not survive. I want to let them know that, for me, they were all individuals, who had families. I'm very sorry for what happened.'

Victims included 11-month-old Samantha Rickard, who died in 1992 after a ten-hour operation to correct her deformed heart.

Little Charlotte Cummings was just 14 months when she had surgery for multiple heart defects in 1988. She died less than a year later - after being taken off the intensive care ward because of a visit by two Tory ministers.

Mr Bolsin revealed the heart ops scandal to TV researchers after claiming the hospital had ignored his warnings.

He said he worked at the BRI from 1989-95, then moved to Australia after being hounded out of his job and shunned by colleagues because he was a whistleblower.

The inquiry follows a General Medical Council hearing which found surgeons James Wisheart and Janardan Dhasmana guilty of serious professional misconduct - along with Dr John Roylance, ex-chief executive of the United Bristol Health Care Trust.

Mr Wisheart, 60, retired before being struck off. Mr Dhasmana, 56, was banned from operating on children for three years by the GMC, and sacked by the Trust.

Mr Bolsin told the inquiry about a conversation with his boss Chris Monk, when they discussed stopping high-risk ops.

Mr Bolsin was left believing patient safety came second behind the hospital's status.

He said: 'An analogy used was a train that passengers were falling off, but the train had to keep moving to attract funding.'

Mr Bolsin gained the impression staff were committed to keeping their designation as a specialist unit, disregarding patient risk.

He added: 'I think if they had undertaken a review it would have been demonstrated that Bristol couldn't do it and, for example, Leicester would have come along and said: 'We can do it, can we have the funding please?'

Mr Bolsin claimed Mr Wisheart threatened to wreck his career after he wrote to Dr Roylance raising fears about death rates.

Mr Bolsin said: 'Mr Wisheart was very angry. He said if I valued my career I wouldn't undertake this type of action again.'

Mr Bolsin also said that when he raised his concerns bosses suggested he attend counselling sessions with the surgeons and a psychiatrist. He told the inquiry: 'I don't think it achieved much.'

Mr Bolsin was quizzed about his possible claim for constructive dismissal. He denied using the claim and a planned TV show to pressure hospital chiefs into giving him a pay-off.

Brian Langstaff QC said: 'You were putting a gun to the head of the Trust and saying 'pay me or I will go public'.

But Mr Bolsin said it was just a request for compensation after his family life was disrupted.

The inquiry continues.



