A HOSPITAL heart unit where 29 babies died put lives at risk in an attempt to keep its Government funding, it was claimed yesterday.

Dr Stephen Bolsin, who is generally credited with exposing the scandal of bungled operations at Bristol Royal Infirmary, said he tried to persuade bosses to halt some of the high-risk surgery: But the situation was like 'a train where occasional passengers were falling off, and the train had to keep moving in order to attract funding', the consultant anaesthetist told the public inquiry into the scandal. Staff wanted to maintain the hospital unit's designation as a specialist heart facility.

This meant he was unable to get action from hospital bosses over his concerns about the high mortality rate among babies undergoing complex heart surgery: 'My impression was that the commitment of staff was to keep doing the things they felt were important to designation, irrespective of risk to patients,' Dr Bolsin told the hearing in Bristol He claims he was repeatedly rebuffed by hospital bosses when he tried to raise his concerns.

As a result, he went outside the hospital in a bid to expose the death rates, which he calculated for some operations to be double the national average.

His initial allegation led to a General Medical Council inquiry into the high death rate among babies undergoing heart surgery at the Royal



It resulted in findings of serious professional misconduct against surgeons James Wisheart and Janardan Dhasmana and former chief executive Dr John Roylance. Mr Wisheart and Dr Roylance were ordered to be struck off while Mr Dhasmana was banned from operating on children for three years. The GMC investigated 53 operations in which 29 patients died and four were left brain damaged. The inquiry is looking into around 2,000 operations on babies at the hospital in the 12 years to 1995. Dr Bolsin said he wrote to Dr Roylance in August 1990 asking for action on the number of deaths of patients under one year old.

Dr Roylance replied with a 'dismissive' telephone call while Mr Wisheart was 'very angry' with him for taking his concerns outside the cardiac unit.

'I was seeking an investigation,' Dr Bolsin said. 'I would have expected the cardiologists surgeons and an independent person to say: 'This is a serious allegation and let's look at the results'.

But he did not push further for action and instead forwarded copies of the letter he had sent Dr Roylance to medical organisations. He was subsequently Summoned to Mr Wisheart's office where it was made 'quite clear this was not the way to progress my career in Bristol'. Other colleagues told him to 'keep my head down', he said

Dr Bolsin, who is now director of anaesthesia at Geelong Hospital, near Melbourne, flew from Australia to give evidence,

He claims he was shunned by the medical establishment for making his disclosures and was forced to seek a job outside Britain.

But supporters of Mr Wisheart and Mr Dhasmana allege his method of gathering figures on baby deaths was seriously flawed.

The inquiry continues.



