THE whistle-blower who exposed the Bristol heart babies scandal said yesterday that the hospital had sacrificed young children to protect its funding.

Stephen Bolsin, a former consultant anaesthetist at Bristol Royal Infirmary, told the public inquiry into the affair that his concerns over the excessive mortality rate of babies undergoing open heart surgery were consistently ignored.

Dr Bolsin's allegations, made public in 1995, were confirmed by a General Medical Council inquiry into 53 operations on children, which had resulted in 29 deaths and left four children brain-damaged.

The GMC struck off James Wisheart, a surgeon, and John Roylance, the former chief executive of United Bristol Healthcare Trust. Another surgeon, Janardan Dhasmana, was barred from operating on children for three years and was sacked by the hospital.

Dr Bolsin, 47, who joined the Bristol Royal Infirmary in 1988, travelled from Australia, where he is director of anaesthetics at Geelong Hospital in Victoria, to give evidence to the four-person panel. He had exposed the scandal by compiling his own data on mortality rates and brain damage among children aged under one.

Dr Bolsin said: 'The view was that this was a train and the occasional passengers might fall off, but the train had to keep moving. To have suspended the cardiac programme in this competitive environment would have cost the unit a considerable amount of topslice funding. It was told that a hospital like Leicester would have come in and taken our funding.'

Dr Bolsin said that the infirmary had continued with high-risk cardiac surgery on babies under one year old 'regardless' of the cost to patients'. He said that he was threatened with losing his job by Dr Wisheart when he first raised his concerns in August 1990.

Dr Bolsin had written to Dr Roylance asking him to address the high mortality rates. Dr Wisheart was made aware of the letter and summoned Dr Bolsin to his office, the inquiry was told.

Dr Bolsin said: 'Dr Wisheart threatened me, saying if I valued my career at Bristol I wouldn't undertake that kind of action again. He made it quite clear this wasn't the way I should carry on.

'It was a salutary conversation. Dr Wisheart was 'very angry that a young consultant had taken the results out of the unit and showed them to non-cardiac colleagues.'

In evidence to the inquiry, Dr Wisheart denied that the meeting had taken place. Dr Roylance had responded to Dr Bolsin's letter with 'a relatively dismissive phone call'.

Married with two children, Dr Bolsin broke down when he halted the inquiry to make a personal statement to the families of the victims who were present. He said:. 'My sympathies are with the parents of children who didn't survive. For me, they were all individual children with families. I am very sorry for what happened to them.'

He said there might have been up to '200 unnecessary deaths', but admitted that was an estimate of the number of parents who had come forward with their concerns that had been published in the British Medical Journal.

It also emerged that Dr Bolsin had been seeking an ex-gratia payment in 1995 from the United Bristol Healthcare Trust, in return for which he would not further publicise his criticisms. He had threatened to sue the trust for constructive unfair dismissal.

Brian Langstaff, QC, counsel for the inquiry, presented Dr Bolsin with a letter from the British Medical Association's industrial relations adviser. It read: 'Dr Bolsin has not yet authorised an interview with Channel 4's Dispatches for broadcast. If he feels that there is no further danger to the public and that he has been properly compensated for the damage done to his career, he will not feel the need to go public.'

Mr Langstaff said: 'You were putting a gun to the head of the trust.'

Dr Bolsin replied: 'No. I think I deserved compensation for the damage done to my career.' No payment was made and Dr Bolsin left voluntarily for Australia in 1996.

Dr Bolsin's draft statement to the inquiry had suggested that the influence of Freemasonry within the Bristol health community had played a part in frustrating his inquiries, but he had deleted that section from his final statement because of lack of evidence.

The inquiry, which continues, will recall Dr Wisheart and Dr Roylance next month for further questioning.



