THE doctor who exposed the scandal of a hospital where 29 babies died having heart operations choked back tears as he gave evidence to an inquiry yesterday.

Dr Stephen Bolsin said: 'I want to let their parents know that for me they were all Individuals who had families. I am very sorry for what happened.'

The 47-year-old former consultant anaesthetist at Bristol Royal Infirmary claimed that the hospital's shamed heart surgery unit put patients at risk to keep its government funding and status as a specialist heart facility.

He said the situation was like a train which was forced to keep moving although some of its passengers kept falling off.

Dr Bolsin described how the hospital management tried to paper over the cracks after his protests about the child death rate by organising a group counselling session with two surgeons who have since been disgraced by the profession. And he recalled a vicious circle of funding set against specialist surgery where the complex operations were required to maintain the 'centre of excellence' status that attracted additional NHS funding.

He told of a chilling conversation with his former boss at the hospital in which it appeared patient safety took second place to the status of the hospital.

He said: 'I always remember the discussion with my director of anaesthesia, Chris Monk, when we were talking about whether there should be a stop to the high-risk operations.

'I said we should examine the results of an audit and then move forward,'

'An analogy we used was a train. Occasionally passengers were falling off, but the train had to keep moving in order to attract funding.'

'This was a director of anaesthesia who was telling me the reason for keeping going was funding. This put in perspective all the things Iliad experienced during the last few years,'

'I think if they had undertaken a review it would have been demonstrated that Bristol couldn't do it and, for example, Leicester would have come along and said: 'We can do it. Can we have the funding please?'

Dr Bolsin said he feared patients' safety took second place to the search for funding and the unit's reputation for carrying out high-risk operations.

He went on: 'My impression was of the commitment of staff to do things important for their designation as a specialist unit disregarding the risks to the patient,'

Dr Bolsin said that when he first raised his concerns management suggested he should attend group counselling sessions with two members of staff at whom he was pointing the finger - James Wisheart, former medical director at the hospital, and surgeon Janardan Dhasmana,

Both were found guilty of professional misconduct by the General Medical Council, Wishart was struck off. Dhasmana was banned from operating on children for three years and later sacked.

Dr Bolsin took part in the sessions but said: 'They confirmed that Mr Wisheart, Dr Dhasmana and myself were looking at the problem from different corners of the same spectrum, I don't think it achieved much.'

Dr Bolsin also alleged an implied threat from Wisheart after he complained In a letter to the chief executive, John Roylance. Dr Bolsin said: 'Mr Wisheart said if I valued my career I wouldn't take this type of action again.'

Dr Bolsin eventually took the highly unusual step for a doctor of breaking the story to local TV journalists. Fearing the medical establishment's anger, he left for Australia.

The inquiry in Bristol is looking into the deaths of 29 children in surgery and four others left brain damaged.

