AN anaesthetist credited with exposing the high mortality rates of children who died in the Bristol heart babies scandal fought back tears yesterday as he expressed his sympathy to the victims' families.

Stephen Bolsin, a former consultant cardiac anaesthetist at the Bristol Royal Infirmary, said on the first of four days of evidence to the public inquiry that he wished to address directly the families of children involved.

'I sympathise enormously with the parents who have been through the situation of children undergoing open heart surgery and complex paediatric surgery,' he said.

Choking with emotion, he added: 'For the parents whose children did not survive, I want to let them know that for me they were all individual children who had families and I am very sorry for what happened to them.'

Now working in Australia, Mr Bolsin, 47, told how he once raised the issue of high mortality rates and the need for an audit of surgeons' performance with his director of anaesthesia.

Mr Bolsin, who says his role as whistleblower ended his career in the NHS, added: 'The analogy that was used was that this was a train from which passengers were occasionally falling off but the train had to keep moving lot reasons of funding.

'This put into perspective my experience in the past few years which was an enormous difficulty and an enormous sensitivity in getting people to examine high risk activity in this unit. I wanted an open review that would have exposed our inability to do arterial switch operations and another hospital would have moved in and said 'We can do that, can we have their funding?'

Mr Bolsin, now director of anaesthesia at a hospital in Geelong, Victoria, was watched by his wife, Maggie, daughter, Natasha, and son, Christopher, as he told the inquiry that he joined the BRI in his first post as consultant in 1989 after working at the Royal Brompton Hospital.

He noticed on his first day that operations which took eight hours at Bristol were performed at a rate of three per day by individual surgeons at the Royal Brompton.

Mr Bolsin raised his concerns the following year in a letter to John Roylance, then general manager of the hospital, saying that mortality rates in babies under one year old were among 'the highest in the country'.

The letter created a lot of 'flak' and Mr Bolsin said he was called in to see a 'very angry' James Wisheart, the senior cardiac surgeon.

Mr Bolsin said: 'He made it quite clear to me that this was not the way I should carry on. This was not the way to progress my career in Bristol. It was a very salutary conversation.

The inquiry heard that Mr Wisheart has denied such a meeting took place.

Mr Bolsin claimed that Mr Wisheart made 'a concerted attempt' to prevent him taking or circulating minutes of audit meetings. Later, he made the approach to his director of anaesthesia where the importance of funding was made clear.

After Bristol's high death rates were exposed and high risk operations halted in 1995. Mr Bolsin said there was 'friction' at the hospital. He said: 'Threats were made to my employment by members of the Trust board and senior executives in the hospital.

'I personally did not want to work for an organisation that did not want me to work for it. I was actively looking for posts outside Bristol.'

Mr Bolsin found his post in Australia early in 1996. He approached the BRI and questioned if he might be entitled to compensation for constructive dismissal, But he denied a suggestion that he threatened to go to the media if the hospital did not compensate him.

Mr Bolsin received a 'ringing endorsement' from Hugh Ross, the current chief executive of the United Bristol healthcare Trust, when he left its employment in February 1996.

Mr Ross wrote: 'Your actions in recent years have been motivated throughout by your concern for the best interests of patient care. 'The records available to us confirm that you did raise your concerns internally within the Trust in the first instance, and only when you felt they were not being adequately recognised did you raise them outside the Trust.'

The BRI inquiry, which is costing more than £10 million, was set up last year after the General Medical Council found Mr Wisheart, Mr Roylance and Janardan Dhasmana, another cardiac surgeon, guilty of serious professional misconduct.

Under the chairmanship of Prof Ian Kennedy, the inquiry is examining more than 2,000 operations undertaken at Bristol between 1984 and 1995. Prof Kennedy's report is expected next year.

The Bristol Surgeons Support Group, which is fighting to clear the names of Mr Wisheart and Mr Dhasmana accused Mr Bolsin of pursuing a vendetta against them. A spokesman said: 'Dr Bolsin has a lot to answer for in focusing his campaign against two highly dedicated and respected surgeons and effectively destroying their careers and reputations.

The inquiry continues.