A JILTED fiancé who launched a knife attack on his pregnant former girlfriend in an attempt to kill their unborn child was given two life sentences yesterday. Brian Smith, 26, repeatedly stabbed Amanda Hunter in the stomach and chest as she walked from an ante-natal clinic when she was eight months pregnant.

Miss Hunter, 21, a trainee nurse, escaped death because her vital organs were protected by the 7lb 4oz baby in her womb, Newcastle upon Tyne Crown Court was told.

Her son Bailey also survived but was delivered two weeks early by caesarean section at Sunderland Royal Hospital, where she was attacked. He suffered two cuts to his buttocks in the knifing and still bears the scars.

Smith, of the Ford Estate, Sunderland, admitted wounding Miss Hunter with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and attempting to destroy the life of her unborn child.

He is expected to be segregated from other prisoners when serving his sentence, after being attacked at Durham Prison while on remand.

Paul Batty, QC, prosecuting, described the attack as the worst case anyone could possibly imagine. He said: 'This was a brutal and frenzied attack with a kitchen knife. The blows from the knife were delivered with such force they penetrated the abdomen and the womb and Miss Hunter also suffered wounds to her chest and arms, where she tried frantically to defend herself.'

The court heard that Smith had been involved with Miss Hunter since 1997 and they planned to marry after she became pregnant early last year.

But after Smith spent a spell in prison, she decided to end the turbulent relationship. Before the attack he threatened her with a knife which she reported to the police, telling them in a statement: 'I am fearful of Brian and believe he is going to take the life of my unborn child.'

Mr Batty said: 'These fears were to be realised two days later.'

Miss Hunter was due to attend the ante-natal clinic on Nov 11 last year, but tried to change the appointment for the fear that Smith would trace her there. But Smith made a telephone call in which he tricked her into believing he had left the area.

Mr Batty said: 'He was waiting for her at the hospital, Amanda began to scream after setting eyes on him and tried to struggle into the doorway of the clinic. 'But Smith chased her, grabbed her hood and threw her to the floor and set about deliberately stabbing her in the stomach in a frenzied and ferocious attack.'

'Witnesses described the attack as vicious and deliberate. Some say they are still troubled by the horror of the images they saw.'

Smith was cornered by two security officers who seized the blood-stained knife from his hand and wrestled him to the ground. Miss Hunter was said still to have flashbacks and to suffer nightmares a year after the attack. Smith appeared in court unshaven and stared at the ceiling ache was sentenced. He had a string of previous convictions including wounding a man with a baseball bat and attempted rape. In 1993 he was convicted of stabbing another former girlfriend. 

Mrs Justice Hallett told him yesterday: 'The attack was savage. It threatened the life of Amanda and the unborn child you claim you loved. 'I can understand that she will never forget that day. I am sure people at the hospital will never forget that day and those, like me, who saw the photographs of the scars you inflicted will never forget those photographs.' 

In mitigation, Roger Thorn, QC, said: 'This is a dreadful and tragic case for all parties.' Smith had suffered emotionally after his split with Miss Hunter and had tried to take his own life, Bailey was a year old last week. After the case Miss Hunter held her son in her arms as she welcomed the sentences imposed on Smith.

She said: 'It's a great relief. I was scared he would get less - two life sentences is everything I could have hoped for. 'I still have nightmares about what happened and knowing he's locked up for a long time means I can sleep easy. I feel a lot more secure, for me and Bailey, now he's behind bars, I will never have any more contact with him, even though he is Bailey's father. Bailey is fine now. He's a lovely little boy and all I want to do is concentrate on him now.'