A KNIFE-wielding psychopath tried to kill his unborn child by ambushing the woman who had jilted him and stabbing her through the stomach.

Amanda Hunter, who was eight months pregnant, survived only because the baby she was carrying was big enough to deflect repeated thrusts of the three-and-a-half-inch blade away from her vital organs.

The baby suffered two wounds to his buttocks which were still bleeding when he was delivered, weighing 7lb 4oz, during emergency surgery on his mother.

Yesterday the baby's father, jobless Brian Smith, 26, was given two life sentences after pleading guilty to wounding Miss Hunter and attempting to destroy their son Bailey, now a thriving one-year-old.

Newcastle Crown Court was told that two days before the attack, Smith had threatened Miss Hunter with a knife after she broke off their relationship. He told friends: 'If I can't have her, no

one will.' Terrified, the trainee nurse went to the police and told them in a statement: 'I am fearful of Brian and believe he is going to take the life of my unborn child.'

It was as she turned up for an antenatal appointment at Sunderland's Royal Hospital that Smith launched a 'frenzied and ferocious attack,' which ended after two security guards wrestled him to the ground.

'This is about as bad a case as one can imagine,' said Paul Batty, QC, prosecuting. 'The blows from the knife were delivered with such force they penetrated the abdomen and the womb. Amanda also suffered wounds to her chest and arms where she tried frantically to defend herself.'

A psychiatric report said Smith, of Ford Estate, Sunderland, was suffering from a psychopathic disorder. The

court was told he had a string of previous convictions, including one for stabbing a previous girlfriend and another for attempted rape.

Smith - repeatedly attacked by fellow inmates while on remand at Durham Jail - is expected to be held in solitary confinement or under special watch for at least eight years - the minimum

term he must serve before being eligible for parole.

Passing sentence, Mrs Justice Hallett, said: 'I am sure people at the hospital will never forget that day. 

Those, like me, who saw the photographs of the scars you inflicted will never forget those photographs. You are a danger to other people, particularly women.' After

hearing of the two life sentences, Miss Hunter 21, said at her home in Sunderland: 'It's a great relief. I was scared he would get less. I feel a lot more safe and secure now he's behind bars.

'I will never have any more contact with him. Bailey is fine now. He's a lovely little boy and all I want to do now is concentrate on him.'



