A FIEND who stabbed his lover in the stomach and chest in a bid to kill their unborn child was yesterday caged for life.

Brian Smith, 26, lay in wait for eight-months-pregnant Amanda Hunter, 21, outside an ante-natal clinic after she'd jilted him.

The trainee nurse only survived because her vital organs were protected by her 7lb 4oz baby.

She was rushed to accident and emergency, where medics delivered tot Bailey two weeks early.

He was born with two wounds to his buttocks. And, just after his first birthday, he still bears the scars.

Smith was given two life sentences at Newcastle upon Tyne Crown Court after admitting wounding with intent to cause GBH and attempting to destroy the unborn child.

The attack even disgusted hardened criminals at Durham Jail, where Smith has been repeatedly assaulted while on remand. 

He lives in constant fear and will serve his time in solitary confinement. Prosecutor Paul Batty QC told the court Smith planned to marry Amanda after she fell pregnant.

But, when he was jailed for another crime, she ditched him and ordered him out of the family home. Smith threatened her with a knife two days before the attack and she told police she believed he was going to kill her baby. He was waiting when she turned up at Sunderland's Royal Hospital with a friend. Mr Batty said: 'Amanda began to scream but Smith chased her, threw her to the floor and then set about stabbing her in the stomach.

'Witnesses described it as vicious and deliberate the blows penetrated the abdomen and womb.' Smith, of Ford Estate, Sunderland, was finally stopped by security guards. The court heard he had a string of previous convictions, including attempted rape and wounding a man with a baseball bat. In 1993 he was convicted of stabbing another former girlfriend in a shopping centre when she jilted him. Amanda said later: 'I still have nightmares about what happened, but knowing that he can't get to me or Bailey any more makes me feel a lot safer.'