A LATIN American dancer who suffered brain damage during the birth of her first child began a claim for £8 million in damages yesterday.

Kerstin Parkin, 31, who cannot walk or speak and needs constant supervision, was the victim of a 'catalogue of errors' after she had a heart attack during labour at Farnborough Hospital in Kent three years ago, the High Court was told.

Mr Justice Buckley was yesterday shown a video of Mrs Parkin, dressed in a black sequinned outfit and dancing competitively with her husband Mark, who was also a professional dancer. The judge then saw footage of her in a wheelchair, unable to hold her baby.

Mr Parkin, 40, who had to give up his career as a choreographer and dance teacher to care for his wife, has settled his £800,000 claim for post-traumatic stress against Bromley Hospitals NHS Trust for an undisclosed sum.

The court was told the pair had danced in international competitions and Mr Parkin was ranked for eight years among the top six Latin American dancers in the world. They had 'an enviable lifestyle' of travel, horse riding and skiing.

John Grace QC, for the couple, said Mrs Parkin suffered a fit in November 1996 which led to a heart attack towards the end of a normal pregnancy. She had been admitted to the hospital with hypertension.

Mr Grace added: 'The midwife did none of the right things. It seems that effectively a panic state ensued among the staff. No one called for assistance for at least four minutes and there were no attempts at resuscitation for five or six minutes.' Staff did not know the code to open the ward door after a crash team had been called. Mrs Parkin's heart started again 20 minutes after the heart attack, according to hospital records.

'The result of the catalogue of errors was that Kerstin Parkin suffered profound brain damage which had a severe psychological effect on her husband. It destroyed two successful careers in the world of international dance, devastated their family life and will mean lifelong therapy and care for Kerstin.'

In a statement to his solicitor, Mr Parkin described the scene as 'total chaos' with nurses and midwives 'running around shouting for help'. He said he was even asked to hit the emergency button himself.

The couple's son, Dylan, is being looked after by family, friends and full-time nannies while Mrs Parkin lives in a rehabilitation unit in Godalming, Surrey.

The couple, who lived in Croydon, south London, at the time of the birth, met when Mrs Parkin travelled to Britain from her native Germany to study dancing. They became dancing partners and married in 1989.

In 1994, they gave up the international dance scene to concentrate on the 'more lucrative' business of teaching and choreography and start a family, said Mr Grace.

Mr Parkin now lives in a flat in Bramley, Surrey, which is paid for with an interim payment from the trust. The trust has admitted liability for Mrs Parkin's condition but disputes the amount of damages.

Mr Grace added: 'One of the remarkable features of this case is that not a single expert on the defendant's side has examined Kerstin. One wonders how any expert can sensibly say he or she has made an assessment of the needs of a patient like this without having carried out an examination.'

Mr Grace said Mrs Parkin had learnt to operate a computer using a laser beam strapped to her head.

He said: 'She tries to communicate using eye movement and facial expressions. Kerstin often cries loudly because of what could be her pain or her mental anguish.'

The case continues.

