A FORMER professional Latin American dancer sued an NHS trust for £8 million yesterday after suffering severe brain damage during childbirth that ended her career.

The High Court heard that Kerstin Parkin, 31, had a heart attack while giving birth to her son at Farnborough Hospital, Kent, in 1996. The international dancer was not resuscitated until 18 minutes after her attack because of a 'catalogue of failures'.

Midwives shouted for help instead of immediately reviving her and a 'panic state ensued', the court was told. Emergency medical staff did not know the combination to unlock the labour ward door to reach her. When Mrs Parkin was eventually resuscitated, her baby was delivered by forceps.

Opening the case, John Grace, QC, counsel for Mrs Parkin, said: 'This tragic case arises out of what can only be described without exaggeration as extraordinary bad care provided in November 1996 at Famborough Hospital to Kerstin Parkin. It is care that was condemned universally by experts on both sides.'

Mrs Parkin is suing Bromley Hospitals NHS Trust for negligence over the childbirth that left her unable to speak or to walk and with 'severe, complex and multiple disabilities'. If successful, the claim would be one of the largest in British legal history.

The trust has accepted liability but disputes the amount of damages and the cost of Mrs Parkin's continued care. Mark Parkin, 40, her husband, has settled his claim against the trust out of court, for an undisclosed amount. Mr Parkin, who pushed the emergency button when his wife had her heart attack and has since suffered depression, had been seeking £800,000.

The court was told that Mr Parkin, from Croydon, South London, had been one of the top six Latin American dancers in the world, competing and teaching overseas and choreographing routines. He had given up his career to care for his wife and three-year-old son, Dylan. The couple have been married eight years.

The court was shown a video of them dancing. 'They were distinguished competitors at the very highest level,' Mr Grace said. Another video was shown of Mrs Parkin shortly after the accident, struggling to speak.

The couple had lived an envious lifestyle with international travel, skiing, surfing, riding and a large circle of friends, the court was told. They scaled down their professional dancing to concentrate on teaching, choreography and having a family.

On November 25, 1996, Mrs Parkin was admitted to Farnborough Hospital suffering from high blood pressure. Labour was induced hours later, but childbirth went wrong and her life and that of her husband were 'completely devastated'.

Mr Parkin described in court how he read magazines and books to his wife in hospital and played her music in the hope that she would respond. 'I was there almost 24 hours. She would struggle to open her eyes but it was obviously difficult for her,' he said.

'I was feeling at that time that she was in danger of dying. All I was trying to do was make her hear my voice and hang on.'

He said that he wanted his wife, who is in a nursing home, to live with him in their own home as a family. 'She has lost so much already I can't see why she should lose out on any more of her family.'

The hearing continues.

