TWO of Britain's most notorious armed robbers were freed yesterday after a judge ruled that they could not get a fair trial because of the 'stench of corruption' surrounding a unit of Scotland yard's Flying Squad.

Bill 'Mad Dog' Hickson and John 'Chainsaw Woody' Woodruff were facing a retrial for a £32,500 post office raid but the Old Bailey was told that 25 officers from a Flying Squad branch, including several working on the case, had been suspended and were facing charges or disciplinary hearings.

The allegations include claims that officers had carried a 'first-aid kit' that contained real or imitation guns that could be planted on Suspects if the need arose.

The two men were arrested in 1996 as they left an East London post office with two bags of cash. Police had watched them for months as they reconnoitred cash deliveries to post offices. In 1997 they were jailed for 15 years each for the robbery but thus claimed that they had been 'set up' by police and that a replica gun had been planted to strengthen the case against them.

Last year BBC Television showed police video film from the arrest of the two men and discovered a gap in the recording just before an officer allegedly found a replica gun on Hickson.

The Court of Appeal ordered a retrial for Woodruff and Hickson after being told that the Yard's 'Untouchables', the anti-corruption Unit CIB3, was investigating Flying Squad detectives, including the officer in charge of their arrest. There were also claims of a 'general taint' over a number of other Flying Squad detectives who might have known about the alleged first-aid kit but failed to act.

Judge Geoffrey Grigson ordered the new trial to be stopped yesterday. But he said that none of the allegations against police had been proved. The detectives have all denied the allegations.

The judge said the defence had claimed that the robbery had been arranged through a woman informer. She allegedly told the robbers that the crime would be carried out with the connivance of people in the post office. Woodruff carried a real gun as part of a pretence that it was a real robbery. The defence said that the informant also tipped off the officer leading the investigation, who had allegedly organised the crime as well as the arrest.

The judge said that the Crown wanted to go ahead with the retrial by excluding the evidence of 12 officers 'over whom the suspicion of corruption or malpractice currently lies', but a jury would be told that the detectives had been suspended.

The judge said the plan was intended to remove the stench of corruption from the trial process', but taking it away the officer in charge of the case was like 'Hamlet without the Prince'. The case would he an 'artifice and not reality'. A jury should be unable to assess the claims of police and defendants, and the burden of proof would shift to the defendants. They could not get a fair trial.

After the hearing. Hickson said: 'There are a lot of people in prison who should not be there. I am pleased to be going home to my family.'

Woodruff said 'I am well pleased; just elated'.

The two men, who have between them spent 30 years in prison for previous robberies, are unlikely to sue for damages after their four years in prison for the post office raid.

Since CIB3 began investigating corrupt officers, ISO cases have been scrutinised for malpractice. So far, 12 convictions have gone to the Court of Appeal or are awaiting a hearing and six men have been freed.

Yesterday's case follows a decision by the Court of Appeal last week to clear Anthony Zomparelli of robbery in another case involving Flying Squad detectives. His case had been sent for retrial and he had been jailed for ten years, but the court threw out the new conviction, noting that but for allegations of corruption there would have been no grounds for an appeal.

The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Bingham of Cornhill, said in his judgement that the case demonstrated the 'malign, far-reaching and poisonous effect' of police misconduct.
