TWO NOTORIOUS East End gangsters, nicknamed 'Mad Dog' and 'Chain Saw', walked free yesterday when a judge ruled they could not have a fair trial because of the involvement of allegedly corrupt Scotland Yard officers in their case.

John Woodruff, 63, and William Hickson, 56, had been accused of taking part in a raid and stealing £33,000 from a post office in Manor Park, east London, in January 1996, armed with a handgun and a bottle of ammonia.

They were jailed for 15 years each in 1997 for the crime, but the Court of Appeal ordered a retrial after the officer who investigated their case was found to have been arrested on corruption allegations. The defendants claimed weapons had been planted on them.

During long careers as armed robbers, the pair took part in some of the most infamous heists in London, netting millions of pounds.

Yesterday's case is one of the first to be overturned in response to complaints that a number of trials are tainted, because they involved police officers accused of wrongdoing by the Metropolitan Police in its anti-corruption drive. Dozens of convictions have been challenged since the corruption purge at the Yard.

At the Old Bailey yesterday Judge Grigson cleared the men of conspiracy to rob. He said: 'It is my judgement that no fair trial is possible.

'Serious allegations were made against 25 members of the squad including the officer in charge, or who had control, of the operation involving these defendants,' he added.

According to the defence it was a 'sham robbery' that was orchestrated by the officer in charge of the case and had involved an insider who worked at the post office.

The two defendants were well known to the police. 'Mad Dog Hickson' and 'Chain Saw Woody Woodruff', both from east London, have been sentenced in total to 60 years in prison for multi-million-pound robberies.

In the 1960s Woodruff emerged as one of a breed of 'baggers' who struck across London. He was jailed for 12 years for armed robberies with sawn-off shotguns.

He acquired his nickname when he was sentenced to 18 years for his part in the £1m Banstead Chainsaw Robbery, in which a security van was sawn in half. He also received 14 years for a robbery in 1978 in which a van was hijacked in the Blackwall Tunnel beneath the Thames.

Hickson was jailed for 12 years in the 1960s for armed robberies. A friend of Ronnie Knight - the ex-husband of the EastEnders actress Barbara Windsor - he also received six years in 1983 for handling the proceeds of a £6m hold-up of a Security Express van, which was Britain's biggest cash robbery at the time.

After his release he disappeared from sight. Underworld figures said they thought he and Woodruff must have retired.
