THE DEATH of Lena Zavaroni, the child singer who suffered from anorexia for most of her life, was not a result of the brain surgery for depression she underwent three weeks earlier, an inquest was told yesterday.

Lawrence Addicott, the coroner in Cardiff, who recorded a verdict of death by natural causes, said that he could not link the operation to the onset of pneumonia, which Zavaroni contracted two days before her death on 1 October.

The singer said early that her life could not get any worse. She had attended countless clinics to treat her eating disorders without any success. In a last-ditch attempt to recover, she begged surgeons to perform brain surgery, threatening to kill herself if they refused, the inquest was told.

For a while after the operation in September it seemed to have worked. But three weeks later, Zavaroni, 35, who weighed just 3.5 stone, was dead, having been too weak to fight off a bronchial pneumonia infection. Until she caught the respiratory disease, she was recovering well and had asked doctors if they thought she would return to the stage, the court heard.

Brian Simpson, the consultant neurosurgeon who carried out the operation at the University Hospital of Wales, said: "She was brighter and making eye contact with people, which she had not been doing before. The nurses said she was asking about their families." 

Her chest infection did not seem to be related to the operation, he said. She was so severely malnourished that she would have struggled to fight any infection.

Her father, Victor, and sister, Carla, asked Mr Simpson at the inquest why he had agreed to perform the surgery when Zavaroni was so frail. "I am sure if Lena was desperate for the operation she would have agreed to put on half a stone first," her father said.

Mr Simpson said: "We had discussions about the risk and she said she was desperate for the surgery and saw it as her only hope. Putting on a bit of weight would not have reversed the long-term problem. She convinced me that if she did not have this operation she would kill herself."

The courtroom was a far cry from the stage career Zavaroni began by winning the television challenge Opportunity Knocks in 1974 when she was nine, singing "Ma, He's Making Eyes at Me". She was born in 1964 in Rothsay on the Isle of Bute, where her family ran a chain of fish and chip shops. She attended the Italia Conti Stage School in London where she was a classmate of a fellow child prodigy Bonny Langford.

But the girl who sang with Frank Sinatra and Liza Minnelli at a Royal Variety performance was unable to cope with her sudden fame. She began her first crash diet at 13. Her condition worsened at 17 when her mother, Hilda, committed suicide.

By 20, she had almost retired from the stage. She married five years later but the relationship lasted only 18 months. Her former husband, Peter Wiltshire, blamed her anorexia and accompanying depression. "It wasn't a real relationship," he said recently. "I had to go - it was self-preservation. She was starving herself to death and there was nothing I could do."

Zavaroni ended up in a high-rise flat in Hertfordshire, living off income support.

The court heard that her friend, Ray Dexter, had written to the hospital to inquire about the brain surgery, back in 1998. In July of the same year, she was referred to the hospital for treatment for her disorder.

Mr Simpson told the court that, under the requirements of the 1983 Mental Health Act, surgeons and psychiatrists had to be satisfied that all other possible treatments had been tried before they resorted to brain surgery. A certificate of permission was issued in August 1999, and the operation was carried out on 7 September.

The procedure uses keyhole surgery to interrupt the nerve pathways that control emotions. A hospital spokesman said that the operation was not a lobotomy, nor was it an operation for anorexia, for which there is no known cure.

Recording his verdict, Dr Addicott said Zavaroni had understood the risks of surgery and still wished to proceed. "There is no distinct and definite connection with the operation. In conclusion I would say it was natural causes." Zavaroni's family refused to comment on the verdict.