A MALE nurse grinned sarcastically as he raped a woman patient and told her, 'You won't remember it later,' a court heard yesterday.

Kevin Cobb was said to have shrugged his shoulders when his alleged victim demanded to know why he had raped her.

Frequently in tears during her harrowing account, the 34-year-old woman told a jury at the Old Bailey that Cobb replied: 'I was only having a bit of a feel. That's all I'm allowed to do.'

Cobb, 38, was accused of injecting the woman with an amnesia-inducing sedative so he could rape her once it took effect. He was also accused of using the powerful sedative Midazolam to kill fellow nurse Susan Annis while they were on a course in London in 1996.

Yesterday the woman sales consultant told the jury that Cobb attacked her in the casualty unit at St Peter's Hospital, Chertsey, Surrey, in January last year. She had gone to the hospital because she was suffering from severe stomach, chest and back pains and had been taken to a treatment room by Cobb.

He told her to get undressed and to put on a hospital gown and later returned with a tray of equipment telling her he had to take a blood sample. She said: 'I felt him put something in my arm. It felt like an injection.'

Cobb was disturbed by another nurse while he was injecting her and he left the room briefly before returning to take a blood sample. She said: 'When he came back in he seemed in a bit of a panic. I was getting very upset with him because he just didn't seem to know what he was doing. Then everything went black.'

Wiping away tears and amid long pauses, the woman relived the moment when she came round to realise that 'something was horrifically wrong.' She said: 'My legs were in the air and apart. He was standing next to me and had a hand between my legs. He was naked from the waist down. I thought he should not be doing that, he is abusing me. The next thing I remember is that he had moved me into a different position on the bed. I could see his face, he was sweating and had a sarcastic grin. I couldn't feel anything in my limbs and I couldn't move. I saw him move towards me and I thought 'Oh my God, he's going to rape me.''

'I must have blacked out again and the next thing I remember he was standing with his back to me, like he was doing up his trousers. I said to him: 'What were you doing to me? Why were you having sex with me?' He turned round and shrugged his shoulders and said: 'Oh, you remember that do you? Well don't worry, you won't remember it later'.

She added: 'When he said those words to me I remember thinking, yes I will remember it.'

Cobb, of Yateley, Surrey, has been charged with the manslaughter of Susan Annis. He also faces two charges of rape, four of supplying a drug with intent to rape and four more of intent to commit indecent assault.

He denies the charges and the case continues.



