A THEATRE nurse who developed asthma while working with a chemical used to sterilise instruments was awarded £157,000 compensation yesterday.

Fostina Brobbey, 58, had to retire through ill health in September 1996, 20 years after first coming into contact with the strong-smelling disinfectant Cidex.'Her award is one of the largest ever for asthma and included damages for pain and suffering, past and future loss of earnings, loss of pension and loss of congenial employment because she loved her job so much.

Manchester county court heard how in the five or six minutes it took Mrs Brobbey to prepare Cidex for sterilisation, her eyes would water, her throat become dry and her breathing laboured.

Once she became so unwell that she had to go home but in general she put up with the discomfort as it was 'part of the job'.

The North Manchester General Hospital NHS Trust had contested her claim for damages for personal injury and losses, but at the end of a four-day hearing was ordered to pay both compensation and costs.

Judge Holman ruled that the hospital had exposed Mrs Brobbey to the risk of injury from Cidex, partly because she was given no warning to keep the lid down on the equipment used to prepare the disinfectant for use, called a Safescope. This rendered the function of the Safescope 'largely, if not totally, ineffective'.

Furthermore, the equipment had not been regularly serviced, masks which might have offered protection from fumes were not provided, and senior staff failed to monitor the effects of short-term exposure to Cidex. The latter indicated 'a failure to appreciate and act on important safety information'.

Mrs Brobbey, a mother of five, from Ancoats, Manchester, said: 'I am pleased with the ruling, but I really didn't want to give up work. I would go back tomorrow if I could.'

The former nurse said she eventually linked her suffering to the preparation of Cidex and, in particular, to contact with one of its constituents, glutaraldehyde.

'I would start to feel better, but then when I went back to work it would start again,' she said. 'I have to carry inhalers with me all the time. The worst thing about it is that I can't really plan to do things I want to because I never know when I'm going to have an asthma attack.'

Hugh Robertson, head of health and safety for Unison, the union that backed Mrs Brobbey's action, claimed: 'There is no safe level of exposure to glutaraldehyde. It is well known that it can irritate the skin, eyes, throat and lungs. In the very rare circumstances where it has to be used, it should be in sealed containers.'

Mrs Brobbey's solicitor, Judith Gledhill, said a number of similar claims involving glutaraldehyde were being prepared. 

Nick Grimshaw, director of human resources at North Manchester Healthcare NHS Trust, apologised to Mrs Brobbey yesterday.

He added: 'In recent years we have limited the use of glutaraldehyde wherever possible, but it is still used where, in the clinical judgment of experts in infection control, it is the best way of protecting patients from cross-infection. That is why it is still used regularly throughout the NHS.'