It was billed as a Titanic battle: a gastronomic feud which would pit two of the nation's most flamboyant restauranteurs against each other for a fortnight in the hallowed arena of the high court.

But, yesterday, the eagerly anticipated entertainment came to an abrupt end when Marco Pierre White, the enfant terrible of British cooking, claimed a legal victory and the right to continue trading at Titanic, his £2m restaurant in London's West End.

White, the youngest chef to win a Michelin gold star and the first British recipient of three, had been taken to court by Oliver Peyton, the owner of the Atlantic Bar and Grill, on the grounds Titanic was a virtual replica of his own London restaurant - with the same clientele, imposing art deco style and address, in the Regent Palace hotel, off Piccadilly Circus.

Peyton, who opened his eaterie three years before his rival, had claimed that White should not be allowed to trade in competition because he had exclusive rights under his under lease with his landlords, Posthouse Hotels and Forte. The 35-year-old entrepreneur, who owns three other designer restaurants, had sought an injunction against both his landlords and White's company, MPW Criterion, and to sue them for damages. But yesterday White found himself with out a battle after the Atlantic's owner abandoned his action at the start of the second day of the hearing.

Peyton had said he had reached a confidential agreement with his landlords, who would pay the total legal costs - estimated at more than £500,000. White was to be paid £200,000 costs at once, ruled Mr Justice Rattee, with the remainder - predicted to be at least £100,000 - to be paid later.

After the hearing, the nation's most notorious chef said he was "over the moon" at the result but disappointed the two-week action had been cur tailed.

"I am disappointed it didn't continue because I wanted to see him in the witness box," White said. "I wanted to fight on because I know we would have won - and I was looking forward to a two-week vacation in the high court. But Oliver abandoned the case against me just before he was meant to give evidence - which shows a tremendous sign of weakness on his behalf?"

In pugnacious mode, the 37-year-old, who admits to owning "something like eight restaurants" - including The Oak Room, Quo Vadis, The Criterion and Mirabelle - added: "The Titanic has sailed over the Atlantic - and they have failed to sink us."

"I think it's very sad that Oliver wasted all that time and all that money," he continued. "I would have thought he had better things to do."

The Atlantic's owner said he "did not wish to be drawn into a slagging match".

"That's not the way I operate," he added. "Our main case was never against Marco - it was against Posthouse. Marco was just the tenant."

A joint statement with his landlords read: "Atlantic Bar and Grill and Forte Hotel Group confirm that any disputes which may have existed between the two parties are now settled and they look forward to resuming a good relationship long into the future." The future relationship between the two celebrity restauranteurs could be less amicable.

