Mohamed Al Fayed was attacked yesterday for making 'venomous inventions' in Neil Hamilton's high court libel action, after he accused the Duke of Edinburgh of murder, said the former Tory cabinet minister Michael Howard had taken a £1m bribe and claimed to have paid Mr Hamilton more than £100,000 for parliamentary services.

In what Mr Hamilton's counsel described as 'wild and groundless allegations', the Harrods owner claimed that Prince Philip had masterminded a secret service plot to kill his son Dodi and Diana, Princess of Wales, and that Howard, a former trade minister, had accepted cash to launch an official investigation into his 1985 takeover of Harrods.

Finally, Mr Fayed increased the total amount of cash he claims to have paid Mr Hamilton, the former MP for Tatton, in return for asking parliamentary questions on behalf of Harrods.

Previously the court heard that Mr Hamilton was paid £30,000 in cash and £8,000 in Harrods vouchers. But yesterday Mr Fayed claimed that Mr Hamilton received £50,000 through the lobbyist Ian Greer and a further £40,000-£60,0O0 in cash. Challenged on the figures by Desmond Browne QC, Mr Hamilton's counsel, Mr Fayed stood his ground.

Mr Browne then accused Mr Fayed of suggesting in 1994 that Mr Hamilton had procured rent boys for the lobbyist. After Mr Fayed said he still believed the statement, Mr Browne said: 'I am suggesting that this was another venomous invention of your fertile mind, which would stop at nothing to blackguard Mr Hamilton's good name'.

Earlier Mr Fayed launched into an outburst on the circumstances of the death of Dodi and Diana in Paris in 1997. Mr Browne had questioned Mr Fayed on his theories and referred to a book by a journalist, Martyn Gregory.

Mr Fayed replied: 'He worked for the Sunday Telegraph and the Telegraph group, and they supported him. The editor of the Sunday Telegraph definitely worked for MI6, his brother-in-law worked for MI6, he is one of the journalists who is hired again for the intelligence sevices to cover up'. He accused the Telegraph newspapers of pursuing a vendetta against him, before turning again to Mr Gregory: 'He worked closely with Dominic Lawson; his brother-in-law is a leading agent for MI6 and MI5.'

'They are above the law, they can do anything. Let Prince Philip sue me, then I will go through everything. Let MI5, MI6 sue me: they are above the law, they killed my son.'

Mr Browne had claimed that Henri Paul, driver of the car in which Diana and Dodi died, was three times over the drink-drive limit and was speeding. Mr Fayed said: 'Henri Paul, his blood was changed in the mortuary. Henri Paul was in MI6 files.'

Mr Fayed claimed to have been visited by an MI6 officer. 'He came to tell me, explained what happened - If this murder happened, it is exactly the same, copycat. He was in charge of killing Milosevic, he knows if anything like that happens. Prince Philip would finance it and MI6 would do it.'

'I submitted three letters: One to the prime minister, telling him all the points, one to the foreign secretary, one to the home secretary. I am expecting the answer. If they don't answer I'm going to take them to judicial review to show the evil power which rules over us'.

Mr Browne claimed that Mr Fayed was trying to persuade the public that the 'awful accident' was not the fault of his employee but was the result of a conspiracy to murder his son and Diana, Princess of Wales before they could be married. Mr Fayed denied the charge, saying: 'I have the right to say how I feel and tell my suspicions.'

Mr Browne asked him: 'Did you not say that Prince Philip had masterminded it because he has German blood and Nazi views?' Mr Fayed replied: 'I have the right to say what I feel and what I believe.' He said that, in an interview recorded for BBC Radio 4's Today programme with John Humphrys, his allegation of Prince Philip's involvement in the crash had been cut out, He accused the 'big boys in the BBC' of shying away from the truth. 'Mr Humphrys found himself in the editing suite with a lawyer on each shoulder.'

On the allegations about Mr Howard, Mr Fayed agreed that he blamed Mr Howard for appointing inspectors to investigate the takeover of Harrods. He claimed that Mr Howard had taken a bribe worth £1m or £1.5m from Tiny Rowland, owner of Lonrho and Mr Fayed's arch-enemy in the battle for House of Fraser and the store.

The DTI inspectors concluded that Mr Fayed misled the office of fair trading, the department of trade, House of Fraser shareholders and the press over his background and the source of his cash, the court heard.

Mr Fayed denied that his campaign against Mr Howard and Mr Hamilton was motivated by revenge. Instead he wanted to 'flush out' corruption in political life and was motivated only by patriotism.

'What I have done with Jonathan Aitken - the one carrying the sword of truth and shield of justice - where he is now? My courage got him.' The court had already heard that Mr Aitken is in prison.

Mr Fayed then referred to Lord Archer, before being warned by the judge not to refer to the Archer and Aitken cases again. Mr Browne suggested that he was using the two cases to 'taint' Mr Hamilton.

The court heard later that Mr Fayed had used a distant relation of Mr Howard, Francesca Pollard, to blacken Mr Rowland's name. Mr Browne accused Mr Fayed of ordering her to parade with abusive banners outside Mr Rowland's London home, and of giving her tapes to gather evidence on Mr Howard.

Mr Fayed denied the claims, but Mr Browne said Ms Pollard's association with the Harrods owner ended only when he asked her to claim in public that Mr Rowland had been involved in sexual relations with other men on the Lonrho board.

The case continues.
