TYCOON Mohamed Fayed yesterday said he decided not to sue The Sun - even though we accused him of deceiving millions of people over Princess Diana and his son Dodi.

The cash-for-questions libel trial heard how The Sun exposed the Harrods boss as a liar over his claims that the couple planned to wed. He had told a Sunday newspaper Di and Dodi spent two hours looking around his Paris villa on the day they died because they were intending to get engaged and live there.

But jurors heard how The Sun had obtained timed video pictures that revealed the couple spent only 28 minutes at the villa. They were shown a copy of The Sun's front page of September 2, 1998 headlined 'Fayed's Diana Lies.' A second headline read: 'Marriage to Dodi was a sickening sham.'

Desmond Browne QC read a short extract from the story, which said: 'The Harrods boss ordered aides to deceive millions of people into the belief the couple were about to get engaged when they died'.

Mr Browne asked the tycoon: 'Is that true?' Mr Fayed, 66, replied: 'That is true.' Then he quickly corrected himself, saying: 'It is untrue. I do not need to deceive anyone.'

Mr Fayed was asked if he had begun legal proceedings against The Sun. He claimed: 'I don't remember. Ask my lawyers.'

The High Court in London heard Mr Fayed HAD taken legal action for alleged breach of copyright, but later dropped the case. When Mr Browne asked why the tycoon had not sued The Sun he insisted it was on his lawyers advice. He added: 'I don't need to sue every newspaper because on a daily basis I am insulted by the establishment.'

Mr Browne said: 'I suggest the reason you dropped the action was because what The Sun said was true.'

Mr Fayed dismissed The Sun's article as 'garbage'. He said 'I am the father. I know exactly what my son is doing. Everyone else - it's just jealousy, envy.'

Mr Fayed was accused of inventing the story to justify his claims that Di and Dodi were murdered. He still insists Prince Philip masterminded a Secret Service plot to stop the pair marrying. The lawyer said Mr Fayed was trying to divert attention from the fact that the couple died in a crash caused by the drunken driving of one of his staff.

Mr Browne said 'The driver of the car, Henri Paul, was one of our employees?' 

Mr Fayed: 'Yes'. 

Mr Browne: 'He was drunk, was he not?' 

Mr Fayed: 'No. He was not drunk.' 

Mr Browne: 'He was three times over the limit.'

Mr Fayed: 'This investigation is still not complete.'

Mr Browne: 'Was Henri Paul taking two drugs for the treatment of alcoholism, which would have aggravated the effect of alcohol?'

Mr Fayed: 'I can't comment on this. It is in the appeal court and I've been asked by my lawyers not to discuss it. It is under investigation. There is a lot of suspicious elements'.

Mr Browne: 'Did you not say Prince Philip had masterminded the conspiracy because he is a German and a Nazi?'

Mr Fayed: 'I have the right to say anything on the death of my son. Let Prince Philip sue me. Let MI5 and MI6 sue me. These are the powers that control the destiny of this country, they are above the law. They killed my son.'
Mr Fayed is being sued over TV claims that he paid former Tory MP Neil Hamilton £30000 to ask Commons questions on behalf of Harrods. Yesterday he insisted Mr Hamilton - who has also been accused of lying to cover up the backhanders - had taken up to £60,000 directly from him. And he claimed he paid the former MP a further £50,000 through political lobbyist Ian Greer.

Mr Browne, lawyer for Mr Hamilton, said these figures had never been mentioned before - and accused Mr Fayed of making his story up as he went along. Mr Fayed was also accused of using the Sultan of Brunei's money to fund his purchase of Harrods in 1985. The tycoon has always insisted he and his brothers paid the £570million bill with cash raised from their own assets. But jurors were told he had a personal fortune of only £62million at the time

Mr Browne said he made up the shortfall by borrowing the money from his friend the Sultan, who is among the world's richest men. Mr Fayed denied the allegation, saying it was a story invented by his enemies. 

The case continues.

