THE first sign was a low, rumbling growl. Then the eyebrows began to oscillate furiously. Finally, the eruption. 'Let Prince Philip sue me then!' roared Mohamed Al Fayed, arms flailing. 'Let M15 and M16 sue me' They know they are above the law' They killed my son because they will never accept it!'

A pause for spluttering indignation. Then again: Prince Philip, if it is not true, then sue me!

Number 13 court sighed collectively and relaxed. It had been tense stuff for most or the morning of day three of Neil Hamilton's cash for questions' High Court libel action against the Harrods owner. For a while it actually seemed that Old Faithful was not going to blow. 

But Desmond Browne, QC for Mr Hamilton, had gone to work, probing carefully. The result was spectacular. Had Mr Al Fayed not accused the Queen's husband of 'masterminding' the Paris crash which took the lives of the Princess of Wales and Dodi Fayed, Mr Browne had wondered? Did Mr Al Fayed not allege this was because the Duke of Edinburgh feared their marriage because of his 'German blood and Nazi views'?

Had he not written in his own magazine, Punch, that Prince Philip's 'establishment cronies' were behind the deaths? While many in the public gallery gaped as this outlandish scenario unfolded, the Richter Scale was initially untroubled. Though his face was thunderous, Mr Al Fayed simply complained to the Judge, Mr Justice Morland, that by questioning his account of an impending Dodi-Diana marriage, Mr Browne was 'capitalising on my grief'. 'It's not right carrying on and thinking it's going to upset me,' huffed the tycoon. He declared later: 'This murder happened.' Henri Paul was not drunk, he said MI5 or MI6 had swapped the dead driver's blood sample with that of someone who had 'committed suicide and taken drugs'. What's more, Paul had been tracked by the Bntish security services for years.

Mr Al Fayed had even been approached by a former agent who had been in charge of a plot to kill Serbia's President Milosevic in exactly the same way, he said. By this stage one's mind had begun to wander. The possibilities were wonderful. This was surely only the start of a chain of celebrity libel cases, involving Mr Al Fayed. Perhaps they could be franchised.

Yesterday the businessman not only challenged Prince Philip to meet him in court (witness for the claimant: The Queen; witness for the defendant; the Duchess of York) and MI6 (call Harry Palmer, Miss Moneypenny, M, Q and the entire 00 section) but the former Home Secretary Michael Howard. The Harrods owner said Mr Howard had been bribed with at least £1million by Mr Al Fayed's arch enemy Tiny Rowland, to order what was a damning DTI Investigation into the Al Fayed takeover of the House of Fraser

'Perhaps Mr Howard has not taken action because he thinks your allegations are beneath contempt?' mused Mr Browne.

Later, in questioning over a conversation In September 1994 which Mr Al Fayed had with then Sunday Express editor Brian Hitchen, Mr Browne established the Harrods boss claimed Mr Hamilton had been 'renting boys' for political lobbyist Ian Greer. Mr Browne added: 'What possible grounds did you have for telling this editor of a national newspaper ... that Neil Hamilton had been renting boys for Ian Greer? What ground for making that venomous accusation?' Mr Al Fayed: 'There was rumours and I am sure it is true.' During the day, Mr Al Fayed also referred to the revelations about Jeffrey Archer, which sprang from a libel action played out in Court 13 more than 12 years ago, Asked whether he had once talked to a journalist about morals and ethics in Britain being more important than anywhere else, Mr Al Fayed said: 'That was what I thought when I arrived...' Then he said: 'You saw again exactly that yesterday.. somebody who wants to be Mayor of London...another British politician.'

Mr Browne pointed out that this was 'not relevant'. The judge said: 'The jury I am sure are fully aware of the fact that the Archer case has nothing to do with this case.'

Later, Mr Al Fayed referred to Jonathan Aitken, the former Tory minister jailed for perjury and perverting the course of justice. The judge said: 'You have mentioned the Aitken business a number of times. We are not dealing with that in this court today,'

Mr Al Fayed replied: 'I am sorry I am just trying to explain the quality of people.'

Mr Browne said: 'Are you trying, by dragging in these references to Lord Archer and Mr Aitken, to taint Mr Hamilton? Is that what you are doing?' Mr Al Fayed responded: 'It's just to confirm that he is not the only person.'

He told the court Mr Hamilton received over £50,000 through Ian Greer from him, as well as up to a further £60,000 in cash.

Mr Browne said that amount had not been suggested before. 'You are making up these allegations against Mr Hamilton as you go along,' he said.

The case continues.
