HARRODS owner Mohamed Al Fayed yesterday accused Prince Philip and MI5 of 'masterminding' the deaths of Princess Diana and his son Dodi.

The multi-millionaire told the cash-for-questions libel trial that the Duke of Edinburgh and his 'Establishment cronies' were behind the 1997 Paris car crash. Al Fayed also said former Home Secretary Michael Howard had been paid a £1.5million bribe to order a damaging report into his business dealings.

He claimed that former Tory MP Neil Hamilton - who is suing him for libel had 'rented' boys for political lobbyist Ian Greer, whose firm was at the centre of the cash-for-questions scandal. The incredible allegations came on the third day of what has already been dubbed the most vicious and damaging libel trial of the century.

Mr Hamilton is suing Al Fayed over a 1997 Channel 4 Dispatches programme in which he claimed he had paid the MP cash for asking parliamentary questions. 

Desmond Browne QC, for Mr Hamilton, was cross-examining Al Fayed on his second day in the witness box. The lawyer said of the death of Princess Diana: 'Did you not say that Prince Philip had masterminded it because he has German blood and Nazi views?'

Al Fayed replied: 'I have the right to believe everything. I have the right to find out how my son has been killed.'

'I have the right to say what I feel and what I believe. I have a lot of support, I receive millions of letters. I will prove what I have said. Let Prince Philip sue me. Let MI5 and MI6 sue me. They know they are above the law.'

Al Fayed, 67, then appealed to the barrister to stop asking him questions about the death of Diana and his son. 'I have told you before I am a father who has lost his son and I have the right to do anything to find out how I lost my son and, please, I have asked you several times not to capitalise on my grief.'

But Mr Browne told him: 'Mr Al Fayed, I am not capitalising on your grief. I am asking you about matters you have made public yourself'. Turning to the DTI report into the Harrods purchase, Mr Browne said that Mr Howard had earned Al Fayed's 'undying enmity' for appointing the inspectors in April 1987. Mr Browne: 'Your suggestion is, and I contend that it is utterly baseless, that he had been bribed by Tiny Rowland to do so.'

Al Fayed: 'Why are you so sure it was baseless? I am the person who knows exactly how it happened - £1million and half a million.'

Mr Browne asked if it was not possible that Mr Howard had not sued Al Fayed over the allegation because he regarded it as beneath contempt and so obviously untrue that it did not merit proceedings. Al Fayed replied: 'No - if he had any dignity or honour and knows he hasn't committed a crime, he would sue me.' 

Mr Browne said the allegation about Mr Howard was as untrue as what Al Fayed had said about the Duke of Edinburgh. Al Fayed replied: 'I say about the tragedy what I believe. I believe because I'm so close. I was so close to Princess Diana and I know what happened to her in the years of her marriage and what Prince Philip has done to her.'

He claimed it was the Establishment and MI5 and MI6 that prevented him from revealing the truth.

Mr Browne said the DTI report in July 1998 found that Al Fayed and his brothers had dishonestly misrepresented their origins and wealth, business interests and resources to the Secretary of State, the Office of Fair Trading, the press, the House of Fraser board and shareholders, and their own advisers.

Al Fayed said he did not accept the findings and branded the inspectors 'naive'. 'It's not true and they built on what Tiny Rowland put to them,' he said. 'There is no documentation, no proof. It was all built on hearsay - Tiny Rowland's lies and corrupt witnesses. The findings are not acceptable, not credible, because I'm not able to cross-examine witnesses who have been paid millions.'

Referring to a conversation Al Fayed had in September 1994 with former Sunday Express editor Brian Hitchen, Mr Browne said Al Fayed claimed lobbyist Mr Greer was a homosexual, telling Mr Hitchen: 'Neil Hamilton is renting boys for him.'

Mr Browne: 'What possible grounds did you have for telling this editor of a national newspaper that Neil Hamilton had been renting boys for Ian Greer?' What ground for making that venomous accusation?'

Al Fayed: 'There were rumours and I am sure it is true.'

Mr Browne suggested it was another 'venomous invention of your fertile mind which will stop at nothing to blackguard Mr Hamilton's good name'.

Al Fayed: 'No, I trust the people who have told me this news. I am sure of it.'

Under the cross-examination, Al Fayed said he had paid Mr Hamilton between £90,000 and £100,000 - more than twice the £30,000 in cash and £8,000 in gift vouchers he originally claimed. Mr Browne said: 'You are making up these allegations against Mr Hamilton as you go along and you have just made an allegation that you have never made before.'

Mr Browne also accused Al Fayed of trying to bribe former Prime Minister John Major into stopping the damaging Department of Trade and Industry report into the purchase of Harrods and said he was after revenge because Mr Hamilton and Mr Howard had not helped him in the controversial purchase of the Knightsbridge store.

Al Fayed said he did not make allegations out of revenge, but that it was 'a matter of flushing out crooked people in political life'. Questioned over remarks in a newspaper article that ethics and morals were more important in Britain than anywhere else in the world, he said: 'That is what I thought when I arrived.'

But he added: 'You saw again exactly that yesterday ... somebody who wants to be Mayor of London. . . another British politician.' Naming Lord Archer and jailed Tory MP Jonathan Aitken, he was accused by Mr Browne of trying to taint Mr Hamilton by linking all three. Throughout the exchanges, Mr Hamilton sat at the front of the court with his wife Christine. Al Fayed was also quizzed about his knowledge of an ITV programme broadcast in June 1998 about the 'secrets' behind the Paris car crash.

Mr Browne said Al Fayed had been branded a liar by The Sun over his claims that Princess Diana and Dodi were planning to marry and live at the Villa Windsor in Paris, the former home of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor then owned by Al Fayed. 'I am the father,' he said: 'I know exactly what my son is doing. Everyone else - it's just jealousy, envy and people still don't accept that.'

Turning to Henri Paul, the driver of the Mercedes in which the couple died, Al Fayed denied that he had been drunk. Mr Browne: 'He was three times over the French drink-driving limit.'

Al Fayed: 'No, it was not true and I'm going to prove that. It's still under investigation which I can't comment about.' But he added that Henri Paul's blood had been tampered with and replaced by that of a suicide victim who had taken a drugs overdose. He said he had complained to the Prime Minister, the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary, asking for a public inquiry into the affair. Mr Browne then referred to a libel litigation started by Al Fayed over a March 1985 article in The Observer which challenged his assertion that he bought Harrods with his own money.

Mr Browne said the article claimed that Al Fayed's assets never exceeded £62million but that Harrods was bought for £570million. Al Fayed admitted he later abandoned the action after advice from his lawyers. Mr Browne added: 'I'm suggesting that you used litigation and the threat of litigation to gag the press and try to conceal the truth.'

Later, Al Fayed admitted he had sent a hamper to Mr Hamilton, but said: 'What's the fuss about hampers? It's part of the tradition that people who have been serving you, been kind to you, friends - you send them a hamper.'

He said the case was not about hampers but 'money, greed, money grabbing, people who have no principle'.

Mr Browne replied: 'This may be a circus for you. For Mr Hamilton, it's a serious matter.'

The case continues.