HARRODS owner Mohamed Al Fayed yesterday accused Prince Philip of masterminding the Paris car smash which killed his son Dodi and Princess Diana.

And in a series of highly emotional outbursts, he even challenged the Duke of Edinburgh to sue him over the claim. He claimed Prince Philip was behind a plot by MI5 and MI6 to murder Diana and Dodi because the Establishment could not tolerate their relationship.

Mr Al Fayed said: 'These are the powers that control the destiny of this country. They are above the law. Let Prince Philip sue me, then I will go through everything. Let MI5 and MI6 sue me.'

'They killed my son because they will never accept...the truth is there, it was MI5 and MI6.'

Mr Fayed, 67, spoke out from the witness box on day three of his High Court cash-for-questions libel fight with former Tory MP Nell Hamilton. The Egyptian tycoon was being quizzed by Mr Hamilton's barrister Desmond Browne QC. Mr Browne accused him of claiming that Prince Philip had 'German blood and Nazi views', in an interview for a men's magazine.

Mr Fayed replied: 'What I said, I believed in it. When it's proved, you can't say I'm lying.'

The Harrods owner also suggested that Dodi and Diana's chauffeur Henri Paul had his blood changed to make it appear he was drunk on the night he crashed their Mercedes in Paris.

Mr Browne asked: 'Are you trying to persuade the public that the crash was not an accident caused by your employee Mr Paul, but the result of a conspiracy to murder them before they could marry?' Mr Al Fayed replied: 'There are so many things in this tragedy. It's already under an appeal court investigation.'

He then angrily told Mr Browne: 'You have no right to bring out the tragedy and make a trial of what I have said, because it's irrelevant.'

He repeatedly accused the QC of 'capitalising' on his grief.

Mr Browne asked Mr Fayed about an article he wrote in his magazine Punch, relating to an interview for Radio 4's Today programme during which he repeated his accusations about Prince Philip.

The interview was cut and later Mr Fayed wrote: 'I made remarks about a particular member of the Royal Family and the big boys at the BBC considered it to be slanderous. Today listeners were excluded from hearing my belief that Philip's Establishment cronies were behind the death of my son and the Princess of Wales.'

Mr Fayed said he was later told by an MI6 captain that the plot was similar to one aimed at killing Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic. He complained to the Prime Minister about his allegations, but was still awaiting a reply.

At one point, Mr Fayed was accused of lying when he said in interviews that Di and Dodi spent two hours at the Villa Windsor in Paris on the day of the 1997 crash.

The home is where Mr Fayed claims the couple were going to live. But a security camera showed they stayed only 28 minutes, Video from the camera was later handed to a newspaper, but Mr Fayed said it could have been tampered with to alter times shown.

When asked why he did not sue the paper over the claims, he replied: 'If I sued every Tom, Dick and Harry who insulted me I would be in court for the rest of my life.'

Mr Browne told the court Mr Fayed's allegations about Prince Philip were as untrue as those he is making against Neil Hamilton. Mr Fayed retorted: 'I was close to Princess Diana and I know what happened in the last years of her marriage and what Prince Philip did to her.'

Later Mr Fayed admitted labelling political lobbyist Ian Greer a homosexual and accused Neil Hamilton of 'renting boys for him', in a secretly recorded conversation with a newspaper editor. Asked what evidence he had for that claim against Mr Hamilton, he said: 'There were rumours and I'm sure it was true.'

Mr Hamilton is suing Mr Fayed over claims he made on TV that the former Minister took cash to ask questions in the Commons on his behalf. Mr Al Fayed denies libel. 

The hearing continues.