MOHAMED Fayed was accused yesterday of 'wild and groundless accusations' after telling the High Court that Prince Philip had masterminded a secret service plot to murder his son Dodi and Diana, Princess of Wales.

Mr Fayed had made the allegations 'on a number of occasions' to give substance to his 'conspiracy theories', said Desmond Browne, QC.

'Did you not say that Prince Philip had masterminded it because he has German blood and Nazi views?' asked Mr Browne.

Mr Fayed replied: 'I have the right to say what I feel and what I believe. I have a lot of support, I receive millions of letters .. Let Prince Philip sue me. Let MI5 and MI6 sue me ... they know they are above the law.'

Mr Fayed was facing cross-examination in his defence of a libel action brought by Neil Hamilton, the former MP for Tatton. He is suing over allegations that he corruptly demanded and accepted cash payments, gift vouchers and a free holiday at the Paris Ritz in return for asking parliamentary questions on behalf of Harrods.

When Mr Browne, for Mr Hamilton, focused on the conspiracy theories surrounding the deaths of the Princess and Mr Fayed's son in the Paris car crash in 1997, the Harrods chairman asked the judge to stop the questions. He accused Mr Browne of 'capitalising' on his grief.

Mr Browne said Mr Fayed had put theories about the crash into the public domain. Mr Fayed said: 'I have the right to believe everything. I have the right to find out how my son has been killed.' 

He denied that Henri Paul, driver of the car in which the couple died, had been three times over the French drink-drive limit and claimed his blood samples had been switched in hospital.

He also alleged that the former Home Secretary, Michael Howard, had been bribed to set up a Government inquiry and that Mr Hamilton had been paid more than £100,000 to represent his interests in Parliament.

Mr Browne said the Harrods chairman was 'making it up as he goes along'. The court had been told that Mr Hamilton had been paid £30,000 in cash and £8,000 in gift vouchers.

But Mr Fayed yesterday said the former minister might have received £50,000 channelled through the political lobbyist Ian Greer and a further £40,000 to £60,000 in cash directly. 'I cannot remember. It was 10 or 12 years ago,' he added.

Mr Browne said that, taken with a previous allegation that Mr Hamilton was 'renting boys' for Mr Greer, they were the 'venomous inventions of your fertile mind'.

Mr Fayed also accused Dominic Lawson, editor of The Sunday Telegraph, of working for MI6 and other journalists who had written critical articles of being secret service agents. 'This is the power that controls this country,' he said. 'They have laws for themselves. They are above the law. How can I get justice?'

He was reminded that a Department of Trade and Industry inquiry into the purchase of Harrods in 1985 accused him and his brothers of 'dishonestly misrepresenting their origins, wealth, business interests and resources'.

Mr Fayed said: 'It's not true and it is all based on what Tiny Rowland [his rival in the bid for Harrods] put to them and on lies and hearsay.' 

He was also questioned about allegations against Mr Howard, a minister in the DTI in 1987 when inspectors were appointed to investigate the Harrods takeover.

Mr Browne suggested that, to take revenge on Mr Howard, Mr Fayed had recruited a woman to hand out leaflets in the former minister's constituency accusing him of taking bribes from Mr Rowland.

The case continues.
