A POLICEMAN Jailed yesterday for rape and sex assaults may have attacked dozens of other women, it is feared.

Paul Banfield was sentenced to 18 years after being convicted of two rapes, an indecent assault and burglary with intent to rape. He also pleaded guilty to a further three indecent assaults.

The 33-year-old sergeant raped one victim, a 45-year-old divorcee, after breaking into her home as she slept - and attacked an ex-girlfriend at her flat.

He then went on to attack three women, raping one of them, in the cells of the Cambridge police station where he was in charge of prisoners' welfare. At Nottingham Crown Court, Banfield wept as Mr Justice Morland told him: 'What you have done by raping these women, and with your indecent assaults on them, was a gross breach of trust and failure to do your duty as a police officer.

'I appreciate that the serving of a prison sentence is an ordeal for an officer, but as a sergeant you must have realised what an ordeal these five women endured. You subjected them to humiliating and terrifying experiences to satisfy your squalid sexual depravity. You had the affiont to suggest that in most cases it was these women who took the initiative.'

Banfield, a custody sergeant with Cambridgeshire Police, was convicted on majority verdicts by the jury Detective Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who led the investigation, said after the verdict: 'I take no pleasure from seeing a police officer in the dock, but if officers break the law, as Banfield has, they deserve the weight of the judicial system as a consequence of their actions.'

It is understood that in just three months, while working at Parkside police station, Banfield came into contact with at least another 100 women prisoners.

Most of them have now been interviewed and said he did not attack them. But investigating officers still fear Banfield may have attacked countless more women who have been too afraid to come forward and make a complaint against a police officer.

A source said: 'Banfield preyed on women who were on their own. His attacks were not just not random. He knew what he was doing and targeted vulnerable women.'

There will have been hundreds, even thousands, of other women who came into contact with him during his 13 years' service. All of the women he was convicted of attacking met him while he was on duty as an officer.

Probationary women police officers were also victimised by Banfield - one trainee officer even gave up her career because of him.

It has been revealed, however, that Cambridgeshire Police had an opportunity to put an end to his sex attacks before they spiralled out of control.

Senior officers were aware that Banfield had been the chief suspect when the 45-year-old rape victim made an informal complaint in 1998.

But because she did not press charges, Banfield was neither given a warning by his superiors nor put under surveillance.

He was not even questioned about his possible involvement, and a year later launched his series of attacks on women in cells at Parkside,

'It was a mistake and should not have been allowed to happen,' said a police source. 'Something should have been said and perhaps he should have been looked at more closely He was never interviewed and was never put under any special surveillance.'

Yet police colleagues again failed to act immediately when the 28-year-old woman he raped in the cells at Parkside made an official complaint.

It took the woman, a petty offender who had made detailed notes about the attack, several weeks to convince officers about her claims.

After Banfield's arrest, Northamptonshire Police were asked to conduct a major external inquiry into Cambridgeshire's handling of the case. Banfield's jail sentence brought to an end what senior officers described as a successful career - and came as a terrible shock to his girlfriend and middle-class parents.

A former 'model' public schoolboy and the son of an RAF officer, Banfield was promoted to sergeant in July. But it was his move last summer to become custody sergeant in the cell block at Parkside that would coincide with his 'systematic' series of attacks on vulnerable women in his charge. 

For most of the eight months on remand before his trial, Banfield was locked up in prison near Oxford. Throughout his remand, Banfield wrote frequent letters to friends in St Neots, Cambridgeshire. He never once expressed any remorse or guilt over his crimes, but continually asserted his innocence.

'He just kept writing to me and telling me he hadn't done anything wrong, that it was a conspiracy and these women made it up,' said one close friend last night.

'So when it came out in court that he had already confessed to three attacks, I couldn't believe it. I still cannot fathom what drove him to do these things.' 

It was only in the days before he was due to stand trial that he finally admitted that he had attacked two of his helpless victims in the cells at Parkside.

But his new-found sense of guilt had not been communicated to his friends, or his parents and girlfriend Tracey Smith, who had to sit and listen to his appalling confessions in court.

Banfield has been going out with 27-year-old divorcee Miss Smith, who works in the finance department at Cambridgeshire Police, for the last two years.

After her boyfriend's arrest, she had stood firmly by him, visiting and writing to him in prison.

According to friends, however, Miss Smith had been 'very shocked' to discover Banfield had confessed to several sex attacks.

'She had had quite a tough time earlier in her life but when she met Paul she really fell in love, she was devoted to him,' said a friend. But even she finally had to face up to the awful realisation of what he had done.'