A POLICE sergeant who exploited his authority to rape and indecently assault women in the cells where he was in was jailed for l8 years yesterday.

Sergeant Paul Banfield also broke into another woman's home after she had told him she had been burgled, and raped her in her bedroom. She wept as she told a jury how she woke up in bed to find the officer, who had stripped off his uniform, having sex with her, and then heard the crackle of his police radio.

Banfield, 33, a policeman for 12 years, also indecently assaulted two other women in the cells at Parkside police station in Cambridge. His force admitted last night that they suspect there may be further, undetected victims and launched a confidential hotline to encourage any such women to contact them.

Cambridgeshire Police also said that they have asked the Police Complaints Authority to investigate a rifle which vanished following a complaint by one victim, and that they had tightened up certain procedures in the custody suite.

Banfield stood in the dock at Nottingham Crown Court with his head bowed, sobbing quietly as Mr Justice Morland told him that he had caused his victims 'prolonged psychological distress'.

The judge added: 'You subjected your victims to humiliating sexual assaults to satisfy your squalid sexual depravity. For them, you were a person of authority responsible to them as custody sergeant. Initially, you were falsely friendly towards them before you sexually assaulted them in the most gross breach of trust and decency.'

Tom Lloyd, deputy chief constable of Cambridgeshire, praised the courage of the victims who had given evidence in court to bring the disgraced officer to justice. 'To them I offer my sincerest apologies,' he said.

He revealed that Banfield's DNA had been cross-checked nationally because of fears that there may have been other victims, but no matches were found. But the force had launched a confidential line, on 01733 564 623 for anyone with further allegations to make.

Mr Lloyd admitted that the trial had highlighted 'serious lapses in procedures' in the custody suite, and a thorough investigation would be conducted into all aspects of procedures there.

He admitted that the force had been conscious of the possibility that Banfield's colleagues may have colluded to cover up for him. 'I do not believe there was any deliberate, conscious act by any member of this constabulary to protect Banfield,' he said.

He added: 'Banfield is not a symptom of inadequate procedures. He is a man who chose to commit these crimes. Where we can tighten procedures, obviously we have and will continue to seek to do so.' Four women were forced to relive their ordeals in court during an 11-day trial as Banfield, a slight, balding figure, attempted to bluff his way past the jury.

He is expected to serve his sentence in solitary confinement as the combination of being a former police officer and a sex offender puts him at a high risk of attacks from other inmates. Even in the witness box, he continued to pretend that he had acted according to the highest motives of his calling, even while planning to have sex with his victims.

He said he visited the woman whose home he broke in to in Waterbeach because he was concerned for her safety. When he saw her sleeping on her couch downstairs, he was checking for signs of life. On the face of it,

Banfield's background seemed ready-made for a career in the police. His father, Tony, was an RAF pilot, and he attended the prestigious, fee-paying Bedford Modern School.

He joined the Metropolitan Police in 1985, but then switched to Cambridgeshire. He spent time on the beat, and worked as a plain clothes detective, where he showed a keen interest in surveillance. But his move back into uniform gave him the opportunities he sought to prey on vulnerable women.

He was convicted yesterday of two charges of rape, one of burglary with intent to rape, and one of indecent assault. He had already admitted three charges of indecent assault on two separate women in the police cells.



