RAPIST police sergeant Paul Banfield wept yesterday as he was jailed for 18 years for a series of sex attacks on women.

Depraved Banfield, 33, boasted about his conquests - and pointed out girls he had slept with to mates in the pub. Friends said he couldn't keep his hands off women, even at work.

Yesterday, the predator was convicted of two rapes, an indecent assault and burglary with intent to rape. He had admitted three other indecent assaults.

Banfield sobbed as Mr Justice Morland sentenced him at Nottingham Crown Court. The judge said he was guilty of 'a gross breach of trust and failure to do yourduty as a police officer.'

Banfield, 15 years in the police, raped a divorcee of 45 he met while on duty in Cambridge city centre after breaking into her house in September 1998. He also raped a 26-year-old who was being held in cells at Parkside police station in Cambridge where he was a custody sergeant. He indecently assaulted two other women In the cells, and attacked a former girlfriend at her home.

Detectives believe other victims could have been too frightened to come forward. They have set up a confidential phone line, 01733 564623, for anyone with information. One woman has twice phoned the inquiry team.

Banfield terrorised vulnerable women for three years while living with his unsuspecting girlfriend, 28-year-old Tracey Smith, at St Neots, Cambridgeshire.

He was often out with the lads. A close friend said: 'He was a good-looking bloke and he never seemed to have any trouble attracting women.'

'He could be quite boastful though and if you were in a pub with him he would look around and say which girls he had slept with.'

Tracey, a civilian worker with Cambridgeshire police, stood by Banfield after his arrest. She recently told colleagues: 'I still love him and will see him in prison, but I will have to move on.'

A friend said: 'Tracey has been shattered by all this. She was living with him when it was going on, and had absolutely no idea.'

Banfield was convicted on majority verdicts by the jury.

Detective Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who led the investigation, said later: 'I take no pleasure from seeing a police officer in the dock. But if officers break the law as Banfield has, they deserve the weight of the judicial system as a consequence of their actions.'

Cambridgeshire police admit there were 'serious lapses' in custody procedures and have ordered better surveillance to protect women prisoners.

