A POLICE sergeant who raped two women - one of them in a police cell - was jailed for 18 years yesterday.

Paul Banfield, 33, who also admitted three charges of indecent assault, wept as his sentence was handed down at Nottingham Crown Court. Sentencing him, Mr Justice Morland said: 'What you have :done by raping these women, and with your indecent assaults on them, was a gross breach of trust and failure to do your duty as a police officer. 'I appreciate that the serving of a prison sentence is an ordeal for an officer, but as a sergeant you must have realised what an ordeal these five women endured. You subjected them to humiliating and terrifying experiences to satisfy your squalid sexual depravity.'

The court was told Banfield raped a 45-year-old divorcée after breaking into her house in a village near Cambridge. She had met him in the town and complained about police handling of a past burglary. He said he would look into it, but broke into her house hours later.

He also raped a 26-year-old woman who was being held in cells at Parkside police station, Cambridge, indecently assaulted two other women being held there, and indecently assaulted a former girlfriend at her home. All the offences took place between September 1998 and October 1999.

Detective Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who led the investigation into the allegations of sexual misconduct, said after the verdict: 'I take no pleasure from seeing a police officer in the dock But if officers break the law as Banfield has, they deserve the weight of the judicial system as a consequence of their actions.'

Banfield, from St Neots, Cambridgeshire, joined the Metropolitan Police in March 1985 as an 18-year-old recruit. After completing his training at Hendon, north London, the Bedford-born officer was stationed in Kensington, west London, where he spent four years as a beat officer.

In 1989 he moved to Cambridgeshire for health reasons and worked at various stations before being attached to the surveillance team at force headquarters. In 1998 he was promoted to sergeant.

After the hearing, Cambridgeshire's Deputy Chief Constable, Tom Lloyd, said that the force planned to investigate ways to ensure that prisoners could never again be at the mercy of a rogue officer. He disclosed that there may be at least one other woman who suffered at Banfield's hands.The police made extensive efforts to discover whether the sergeant had been responsible for other unsolved rapes, but DNA comparisons had proved negative.

'One woman did ring the inquiry team on two occasions,' he said. 'On each occasion she declined to reveal her identity but did provide enough information for officers to believe she may have been a victim of Banfield. It is thought she lived in the Huntingdon area.' 

The police force and has issued a hotline number for any information: 01733 564 623.