A POLICE sergeant who raped two vulnerable women and indecently assaulted three others in the custody cells that he supervised and at their homes was sent to prison for 18 years yesterday.

Paul Banfield, 33, rocked on his heels and then held his head in his hands as a judge told him: 'You subjected them to humiliating and terrifying experiences to satisfy your squalid sexual depravity, causing them great distress.'

Fellow officers were in tears after the guilty verdicts at Nottingham Crown Court at the end of a two-week trial. Officers who fear that Banfield may have attacked other women plan to open a confidential hotline through which other victims could come forward.

Detective Superintendent Chris Stevenson said outside the court: 'I take no pleasure from seeing a police officer in the dock, but if officers break the law. . .they deserve the full weight of the judicial system.' The former officer will spend his term in solitary confinement and was told by Mr Justice Morland that his case would not be eligible for consideration by the Parole Board until he had served at least half his sentence.

Banfield's parents, who attended court throughout the hearing, were said to be stunned. His live-in girlfriend, Tracey Smith, a police civilian worker, who attended only the first day of the evidence, was prepared to stand by him, the judge was told.

Banfield carried out a sustained and systematic year-long campaign of abuse, mostly while on duty in uniform in or near Parkside police station, Cambridge, where he served as a custody sergeant. He admitted three charges of indecent assault and was found guilty by majority verdicts of two counts of rape, burglary with intent to rape and another indecent assault. Three of his five victims were assaulted in the cells and two, who were not involved in police inquiries, were attacked in their homes.

Tom Lloyd, Deputy Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire Constabulary, apologised to the victims last night. He said: 'They have suffered appalling experiences, have shown strength of character and had the courage to attend court and to give their evidence.'

Mr Lloyd said the trial had uncovered serious lapses in custody procedures, which had left Banfield alone with women, and that new working practices were being introduced. Mr Justice Morland told Banfield, from St Neots, Cambridgeshire: 'You have had the effrontery to suggest that in most cases it was the women who took the initiative to make sexual advances. Three of your victims were young women and all were vulnerable. They had been detained in Parkside police station in connection with minor offences. They were naturally upset and scared. For them you were a person in authority, responsible for them as custody sergeant.'

The series of assaults carried out by the custody officer emerged only after the last of his victims made a complaint to the duty inspector at Parkside on October 19 last year that she had been raped in her cell ten days earlier.

The 26-year-old woman, who had been arrested for breach of bail conditions, told the disbelieving inspector that Banfield had handed her a white boiler suit to change into in order to keep her own clothes clean while she awaited an appearance before magistrates. He told her to remove her underwear and leave the suit unzipped then returned to the cell and raped her.

Police have traced and questioned dozens of women prisoners held in custody while Banfield was on duty.

Although none reported that Banfield molested them, Detective Superintendent Stevenson said after the verdict: 'We are by no means confident that there are no other women out there who were among Banfield's victims.'

Police would particularly like to trace one woman who anonymously telephoned the inquiry team twice and provided enough information for officers to believe that she may have been a victim.



