A police sergeant was sentenced to 18 years in prison yesterday for raping and indecently assaulting women while on duty, to 'satisfy his squalid sexual depravity'.

Paul Banfield, 33, a custody sergeant at Parkside police station in Cambridge, broke down in tears at Nottingham crown court as a jury found him guilty by majority verdicts of raping two women, indecently assaulting a third, and committing burglary with intent to rape. He had earlier pleaded guilty to three indecent assaults on two further victims.

The court heard Banfield had committed most of the assaults while on duty, including raping one woman and indecently assaulting two more in police cells while he was the custody sergeant in charge of their care. He also indecently assaulted a former girlfriend at her home. None of the victims can be named for legal reasons.

In court, the five victims had painted a picture of a man who routinely abused his position of trust and authority to exercise sexual power over women supposed to be in his care. Yet he showed no awareness of the suffering he had inflicted, often phoning and visiting his victims after his attacks, and even delivering flowers and a birthday card to one woman.

Mr Justice Morland told Banfield he had shown no remorse, adding: 'You subjected them to humiliating and terrifying experiences to satisfy your squalid sexual depravity.'

He said: 'I appreciate that the serving of a prison sentence is an ordeal for an officer, but as a sergeant you must have realised what an ordeal these five women endured.'

Banfield had targeted vulnerable young women, and the victims assaulted in police cells were 'naturally upset and scared'.

'For them, you were a person of authority responsible for them as custody sergeant,' the judge said. 'You had the affront to suggest that in most cases it was the women who took the initiative to make sexual advances upon you.'

The court had heard that Banfield's first victim was a 45-year-old divorcee he met while on duty as a patrol sergeant in Cambridge city centre in September 1998. He raped her after breaking into her house at 4am.

Banfield's parents, Tony and Angela Banfield, who attended court every day, heard that the woman, identified as woman B, awoke to find the officer on top of her.

Banfield claimed she had invited him to her home and he had climbed in through a window because he feared she had taken an overdose.

The woman was too frightened to make a formal complaint but her friend notified a police officer and an investigation was launched, which identified Banfield as the likely culprit using computer records. Yet Banfield was never informed about the complaint or interviewed to give his version of events, while a police file on the case sent to his police station at the time has gone missing.

It was not until woman A made a formal complaint in October 1999 that Banfield had raped her in her police cell that officers contacted his first rape victim and persuaded her to press charges. Other victims later came forward following a police appeal but some complained the police had not taken their allegations seriously.

The year between these offences enabled Banfield to continue in his job and to transfer to the post of custody sergeant last July, allowing him to continue his assaults between August and October last year.

The court heard he flattered and flirted with three women prisoners being held in his custody suite, repeatedly visiting their cells to grope and sexually assault them. He made one woman change into a white boiler suit, telling her to remove her underwear before raping her and then cleaning the cell to remove all evidence. A closed-circuit TV videotape of the suite on that night was later found to be blank and unused. The original tape has never been found.

Investigating officers have contacted most of the 300 women who passed through the custody suite during the four months Banfield was a custody sergeant and, although DNA testing of Banfield has revealed no link with any unsolved sex attacks, a senior police officer said he feared his known victims maybe just "the tip of the iceberg". Banfield, of St Neots, Cambridgeshire, enjoyed a privileged upbringing as the son of an RAF flight lieutenant, attending the £11,000-a-year Bedford Modern private school from the age of 10. He worked briefly in a builders merchant's yard before joining the Metropolitan police as a cadet based in Kensington in 1985, transferring to Cambridgeshire four years later.

His 10 years with the Cambridgeshire constabulary included three years as a community beat officer on the deprived Oxmoor council estate in Huntingdon and a stint with CID. He was promoted to sergeant in July 1998, just before his first attack.

Banfield carried out the assaults while living with his girlfriend of three years, Tracey Smith, 29, a civilian worker in the finance department of Cambridgeshire police. She was herself arrested and briefly suspended from duty for activities allegedly related to the charges against him. She has since sold her story to a Sunday tabloid.

Police revealed a number of Banfield's female colleagues have since made formal complaints about sexual harassment and inappropriate remarks made by him, while his friends testified to his bragging about his sexual conquests.

An internal police investigation into how Banfield's crimes were able to go undetected for so long concluded that there had been 'serious lapses in procedure' in the custody suite at Parkside police station but that the officer's colleagues had not acted to protect him.