A CUSTODY officer who raped and indecently assaulted women prisoners in the cells of a police station was jailed for 18 years yesterday for subjecting them to 'humiliating and terrifying experiences'.

Sgt Paul Banfield, 33, wept in the dock at Nottingham Crown Court as Mr Justice Morland imposed one of the longest prison sentences handed down to a serving police officer in recent years. The judge told the rapist that he had severely abused his position of trust as an officer responsible for the welfare of prisoners in his care to 'satisfy your squalid sexual depravity'.

Last night, as Banfield began his sentence, it was disclosed that his first victim spoke to police in 1998 after he broke into her house and raped her. The 45-year-old divorcee had met him while he was on duty in Cambridge city centre.

An investigation was not conducted because she would not make a formal complaint against Banfield. She was 'confused and scared' of accusing a police officer.

He was arrested 13 months later when a second woman complained he had raped her at Parkside police station, Cambridge, where she was under arrest for failing to submit to her bail conditions. By that time Banfield had been appointed a custody officer and had indecently assaulted two other women in cells and a former lover at her home.

Banfield, a former public schoolboy, of St Neots, Cambs, was convicted on majority verdicts of two rapes, an indecent assault and burglary with intent to rape. He had pleaded guilty earlier to three further indecent assaults on two women. Cambridgeshire Police last night conceded 'serious lapses in police procedures'. Tom Lloyd, Deputy Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire, said the investigation into allegations against Banfield and the evidence given during his trial 'raised important issues for Cambridgeshire Constabulary, for the public of Cambridgeshire' and beyond.

'There was no evidence' that Banfield had been protected by fellow officers. Mr Lloyd described Banfield as 'a sexual predator who used his position of considerable authority and trust to target and attack women who, for various reasons, were in a vulnerable position'.

He said: 'They have suffered appalling experiences, have shown strength of character and had the courage to attend court and to give their evidence. To them I offer my sincerest apologies on behalf of Cambridgeshire Constabulary.' Its procedures would be reviewed.

Mr Lloyd said that during investigations officers became aware that there might be other women who Banfield had assaulted. His DNA had been sent for testing and cross-referral nationally to see if it matched any other crime scene, but the results were negative.

Banfield was also profiled by the National Crime Faculty at the Police Staff College, in Bramshill, Hants, to see if there were outstanding cases in the country. Again this proved negative.

Last night a telephone hot line was set up by Cambridgeshire Police to encourage any other victims to make formal complaints. Detectives said that "hundreds" of women were detained in cells at Parkside while Banfield was a custody sergeant. At least one woman has already contacted police after extensive publicity over the case.

Banfield made no secret of his sexual prowess to his police colleagues. Despite having a long-standing girlfriend, Tracey Smith, he regularly pointed out his conquests to friends while drinking in pubs.

His conviction came amid increasing concern within the Police Complaints Authority about the number of allegations of sexual misconduct against police officers in recent years.

In 1998, the latest years for which statistics are available, more than than 30 officers were suspended amid allegations of indecency, indecent assault and rape.

Authority officials concluded that some policemen displayed an 'outdated and unacceptable' attitude to women and that a few were prepared to 'betray their position of trust for personal sexual gratification'.

Molly Meacher, acting chairman of the authority, said: 'This officer has brought disgrace upon the service. He has let down the police force and the women that he was sworn to protect. 'Women must be able to feel safe in custody. That is one of the reasons we have pressed for the extension of closed-circuit television cameras in custody areas.' The police service would need to review 'whether every custody suite should have at least one woman officer or civilian on duty'.
