THE first rape victim of Sgt Paul Banfield originally went to police after she was attacked in 1998 but, because she would not make a formal complaint, he was not arrested until after he raped his second victim 13 months later.

During the intervening period, he indecently assaulted two women in the cells at Parkside police station, Cambridge, where he had moved to be a custody sergeant in charge of prisoners' welfare.

He also indecently assaulted a third woman, aged 28, in her home. He tried to undress her while she was on the phone and he said: 'What are you going to do? Ring the police?' In September 1998 Banfield raped his first victim, a 45-year-old divorcee, at her home after following her home while on duty. He met her earlier on patrol in Cambridge's Market Square. She had given him her address and telephone number.

He climbed into her house through an open ground floor bathroom window and raped her in her bed.

Although the woman spoke to police, she did not pursue a formal complaint against Banfield because she was 'confused and scared' of accusing a policeman. She was also concerned about ruining a relationship with her boyfriend.

It was not until October 1999 that Banfield's second victim, a woman of 20, complained that he had raped her in the cells at Parkside, where she was being held for breaching her bail conditions.

She claimed that she tried to report the rape 'two or three' times before being taken seriously. After an investigation was launched, the first victim agreed to make a formal complaint of rape against Banfield.

By the time of Banfield's arrest, he had again abused his position of authority and indecently assaulted a 20-year-old shoplifter in a cell in September last year.

The following month, he also indecently assaulted a woman of 26 detained for being drunk and disorderly. Tom Lloyd, Deputy Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire, said: 'Banfield is not a symptom of inadequate procedures. He is a man who chose to commit these crimes.'

Earlier this year, Cambridgeshire Police asked a senior detective from Northamptonshire to review the investigation into Banfield.

His recommendations suggested improvements to the use of audio and visual recording equipment in police stations.

Closed-circuit television tapes of recordings made in custody areas of police stations are now kept in locked cabinets after a tape which should have shown the period when the second rape victim was attacked had been changed for a blank one.



