THE trial of 28 GM protesters accused of damaging crops should not be confused with a similar plot in The Archers, a judge warned yesterday.

In a lighthearted reference to the current storyline in the Radio 4 soap, Judge David Mellor told the jury: 'This is not The Archers trial but the real one. You can tell it's the real one because you are not going to be paid Equity rates.

'The case is not about whether GM crops are a good thing or a bad thing. It cannot be about which side is in the right in one of the great debates of our time.'

The court heard that Lord Peter Melchett, 51, executive director of Greenpeace UK, and his 27 co-defendants would be claiming they had 'a lawful excuse' for damaging and stealing GM maize plants from a field at Walnut Tree Farm, Lyng, Norfolk.

Mr John Farmer, prosecuting, described how in the early hours of July last year, farmer William Brigham became aware that there were people on his land. The group had travelled from all over the country to take part in the raid on the experimental GM maize crop.

'What was going on was that the people were in the process of using mechanical means to knock the crop down,' Mr Farmer told Norwich Crown Court. 'They were putting some of it on to a truck.'

A tractor and a cutter were used to demolish the crop before police arrived and arrested 10 women and 18 men. After their arrests, some remained silent but others explained their actions by saying that they were 'protecting the environment,' said Mr Farmer.

Mr Farmer said that Lord Melchett, who also farms in Norfolk, had written a letter to Mr Brigham 11 days before the raid setting out arguments against the growing of GM crops, saying there were fears that other plants, including people's home-grown vegetables, could be contaminated.

'From your own experience as a farmer you will know that weeds, crop diseases and pests spread easily from one farm to another,' Lord Melchett wrote. He pointed out that a recent opinion poll had found that 73 per cent of the public don't want GM crops because of contamination fears.

Lord Melchett concluded the letter by saying: 'I do hope, in all the circumstances, that you will see the need for this crop to be removed before flowering, as has already been the case with the field trial near Swindon and indeed a number of field trials in other European countries.'

The 28 in the dock all deny damaging the GM maize belonging to Agrevo UK Ltd, and stealing a quantity of it.

Mr Farmer said: 'They will be raising a special defence of saying that what they did was carried out with a lawful excuse. They will be saying the law permits you to damage or destroy other property in order to protect property belonging to yourself or another.' But Mr Farmer told the jury: 'You may think this section of law is particularly designed for a sudden emergency like a fire where the fire brigade may have to damage neighbouring property to put a fire out.'

He added that in the case of the theft of the maize which was loaded on to a tipper truck, there would also be no serious dispute that all defendants were involved in different ways.

The issue for the jury to decide was whether the defendants had acted dishonestly. 'You set the standards,' Mr Farmer told the jury Judith Jordan, product development manager for Agrevo, said the total cost of the GM experiment at sites around the country was £3.3million, or around £17,000 per site.

The company provided the seed to the farmer who then grew it. The maize grown on Mr Brigham's farm had been genetically modified to make it tolerant to a specific form of weedkiller. The idea was that all other weeds and plants on the site would be kept under control by the weedkiller, leaving the GM crop alive. Farmer Brigham was compensated at a rate of £750 per hectare for allowing the GM crops to grow on his 2.4-hectare field.

The crop was planted in early May and was set to be harvested in early October, said Miss Jordan.

Cross-examined by Mr Owen Davies, QC, defending, Miss Jordan admitted that the study did not include provision for finding out whether bees could cross-pollinate other plants with GM material having taken pollen from the maize. She also agreed that no element of the study examined whether deer, which proliferate in the area, could also transfer pollen from the maize to other plants.

Farmer Brigham described how he had ticked off Lord Melchett when he saw the peer in his field. 'I said he ought to be ashamed of himself,' he told the jury. 'I told him to stop his conspirators carrying out what they were doing - a giant publicity stunt.'

The case continues.