LORD MELCHETT pleaded with a farmer to destroy his genetically modified maize days before he and dozens of other Greenpeace protesters descended on his land to rip up the crop, a court was told yesterday.

The peer is among 28 defendants who deny charges of theft and criminal damage that arose from a dawn raid on the four-acre Norfolk field last July. Before the defendants, dressed in white overalls bearing the Greenpeace name, arrived at Walnut Tree Farm in Lyng, Lord Melchett had written to the farmer, Willian Brigham, stating his concern.

In his letter, Lord Melchett 51, executive director of Green peace and himself a Norfolk farmer, said that other plants, including private vegetable gardens, could be contaminated. He wrote: 'From your own experience as a farmer, you will know that weeds, crop diseases and pests spread easily from one farm to another.'

A recent poll, Lord Melchett said, had found that 73 per cent of the public did not want GM crops because of contamination risk. He added: 'I do hope, in all the circumstances, that you will see the need for this crop to be removed before flowering, as has already been the case with the field trial near Swindon and indeed a number of field trials in other European countries.'

As the trial began at Norwich Crown Court, Judge David Mellor told the jury that the case could not be about which side was in the right in one of the great debates of the present time. Telling them to apply the facts of the case to the law, he referred to The Archers, the BBC Radio 4 soap opera. He said: 'This is not the Archers trial, but the real one. The trial will involve major public controversy.'

John Farmer, for the prosecution, said that a tractor and cutter were used to demolish the crop before the police were called and ten women and 18 men were arrested. 'They will be raising a special defence of saying this was carried out with lawful excuse,' Mr Farmer said. 'They will be saying the law permits you to damage or destroy other property in order to protect property belonging to themselves or others and at the time of those acts that the property was in immediate need of protection.'

He said that in the case of the theft of the maize, which was loaded on to a tipper truck, there would be no serious dispute that all the defendants were involved in different ways. But the issue, he told the jury, was whether the defendants had acted dishonestly.

Judith Jordan, product development manager for AgrEvo UK, the company carrying out the trials, said that the total cost of the GM experiment at sites around the country was £3.3 million, about £17,000 per site. The maize on Mr Brigham's farm had been genetically modified to make it tolerant to a specific form of weedkiller. The idea was that all other weeds and plants on the site would be kept under control by the weedkiller, leaving the GM crop alive.

Mr Brigham, she said, was compensated at a rate of £750 per hectare for allowing the GM crops to grow on his 2.4-hectare field.

Cross-examined by Owen Davies, QC, for the defence, Miss Jordan said the study did not include provision for finding out whether bees could cross-pollenate other plants with GM material having taken pollen from the maize. She also agreed that no element of the study examined whether deer, which proliferate in the area, could transfer pollen from the maize to other plants.

The trial continues.