Lord Melchett told a Norfolk farmer that 'he only had himself to blame' when the hereditary peer and 27 fellow members of Greenpeace pulled up his field of genetically-modified maize, a court heard yesterday.

The Old Etonian and executive director of Greenpeace allegedly also told William Brigham that his £1,800, crop was being uprooted because he had failed to attend a meeting calling for its destruction 16 days earlier in the nearby village of Lyng.

Mr Brigham told the court that the peer had written to him after the meeting, claiming he was following local people's wishes, although the farmer could recognise no one from the village of 750 where he had lived all his life and where his family had farmed for 400 years.

The confrontation between the aristocrat and the arable and dairy farmer came shortly after 5am on July 26 last year.

Mr Brigham, the chair of Lyng parish council, told the court he had learned that Greenpeace activists, accompanied by the media, had broken into the six-acre field at his 800-acre Walnut Tree farm and were beginning to rip up his just-flowering crop of GM maize. Driving down to the site, he saw the protesters in white overalls emblazoned with Greenpeace, rip out the crop, attack it with strimmers and a tractor, and place it, bagged up, in a truck.

After clambering over a gate they had locked and telling activists to stop, Mr Brigham approached Lord Melchett, 52. 'I said he should be ashamed of himself, and told him to stop and stop his fellow conspirators from carrying out what appeared to be a giant publicity Stunt,' the farmer told Norwich crown court.' He said 'I only had myself to blame because I didn't attend the meeting in Lyng.'

Lord Melchett and 27 others were accused of ripping up and stealing £750-worth of genetically-modified, herbicidetolerant maize belonging 10 the biotechnology company AgrEvo, and planted at one of seven sites across the country in a four-year £3.3m trial.

The environmentalists, from as far afield as Edinburgh, Leeds and Aberdeen, and including a vicar and beauty therapist as well as Lord Melchett, a former Northern Ireland minister, all pleaded not guilty to theft and causing criminal damage.

They will argue their actions were justified because they acted, to prevent serious damage to other crops and the environment by genetic pollution from the GM maize pollen.

The trial, at which the defendants were so numerous they flooded out of the dock, overspilling into the public gallery is the first in Britain in which jurors will be asked to grapple with the controversial issue of genetically-modified crops.

But, before the case began, the judge warned them they were not there to deliver a moral or political verdict. Addressing the six men and six women, Judge Mellor said: 'You may have guessed that this is the GM trial. Not the Archer's one (a reference to the similar trial of Tommy Archer in the long-running Radio 4 soap opera) but the real one. You can tell it's the real one, because you won't be paid Equity rates'. He told them that, in an area as rural as Norwich, it would be surprising if none of the 12 was either an ardent supporter of the environment or involved in agriculture. But he warned them to put their prejudices aside: 'it is not about whether GM crops are a good thing or a bad thing.' It was 'a criminal trial ... neither a political debate nor a scientific debate,' added John Farmer, prosecuting.

The court also heard from Judith Jordan, the AgrEvo manager responsible for the site, who admitted her company had carried out no checks for contamination on a control field of maize 200 metres away.

The case continues.