LORD Melchett, the executive director of Greenpeace, and 27 fellow campaigners appeared in court yesterday at the start of what the judge described as the country's 'real GM trial'.

Judge David Mellor told the jury at Norwich Crown Court that the trial would raise issues of international importance over the growing of genetically modified crops.

But he added: 'It is not about whether GM crops are a good or bad thing. It is not about what side is in the right in one of the great debates of our time.'

Lord Melchett, 51, a former Labour junior Northern Ireland minister, and his co-defendants deny criminal damage and theft at a dawn demonstration in July.

The Greenpeace supporters are accused of destroying and then stealing genetically modified maize being grown in a government, supervised experiment at a farm near Dereham, Norfolk.

Referring to a recent storyline in The Archers, when Tommy Archer was accused of similar offences, Judge Mellor told the jury: 'This is the GM trial - not The Archers' one, but the real one. You can tell this is the real one because you won't be paid Equity rates.'

John Farmer, prosecuting, said that the GM maize being grown on 24 hectares of William Brigham's Walnut Tree Farm was a legal enterprise aimed at finding out what effect, if any, such crops had on their surroundings.

He said that Lord Melchett and the other defendants, 16 men and 10 women, claimed that they were legally entitled to do what they did to protect the environment. 'However, the fact you do not approve of what others are doing does not mean you are entitled to destroy it,' he said.

He doubted that the defendants would deny cutting the maize. He expected they would say that their actions were justified by the 'lawful excuse' that they were trying to protect property at immediate risk.

The protest, he added, had not involved local people, but activists who had travelled from all over the country to cut down the maize and load it on a lorry they had brought with them. 

It followed a letter to Mr Brigham in which Lord Melchett warned of the 'dangers to the environment' from GM crops. The letter concluded: 'I do hope you will see the need for this crop to be removed before ploughing.'

At the demonstration, the farmer told Lord Melchett that he should be ashamed and ordered him to leave.

Judith Jordan, product development manager for Aventis, the company conducting the experiments, admitted that they had not considered whether pollen from the maize might be spread to other farms.

The case continues.



