MARCO Pierre White was shocked and angry when two newspapers falsely accused him of having a 'well-publicised bout with drugs and alcohol', the chef told the High Court yesterday.

Mr Pierre White, who is suing the New York Times and The International Herald Tribunal for libel, told a jury that he never touched drugs and rarely drank.

The 38-year-old chef, who was described by his counsel, George Carman, QC, as a man with a 'glittering career', said his family background had put him off drinking to excess. He told the jury he had been brought up on a council estate in Leeds and left school at 16. His mother had died when he was six and he believed that his father was an alcoholic.

'I saw the destruction it caused in the family,' he said. He 'very rarely drank' but might have a glass of wine 'from time to time' during a social occasion. 'I have never taken drugs in my life. I object to drugs. I think it's very destructive,' he told the jury.

He was 'very angry' and 'very upset' when he read the article. Mr Carman said his client has commercial interests in several distinguished London restaurants, including the Oak Room, the Mirabelle, the Titanic and the Cafe Royal. He was the youngest chef to obtain three Michelin stars and 'the only Englishman to be so honoured'.

The drugs and drink claim in the article in May 1998 came as a 'bombshell'. 

'That statement is not only untrue and totally false, but it is accepted by these two newspapers to be false and completely untrue,' he said. 

He said Mr White had felt harassed by the newspapers. Inquiry agents had been employed to see if they could get any 'dirt' on him - any stories of 'sex and drugs and rock and roll'.

The court heard that the newspapers now claim the article did not lower Mr White's reputation.

Mr White told Geoffrey Robertson QC, for the newspapers, that he did not feel vindicated when he heard two weeks ago that the defendants had accepted that he had never drank to excess or taken prohibited drugs.

'Why should I? I never got an apology,' he said. All he had wanted when he began the litigation was an apology and costs.

The case continues.



