A CONWOMAN who fleeced victims out of more than £275,000 in a bogus ostrich farm swindle walked free from court yesterday.

Esther Evans was given a two-year suspended jail sentence and ordered to pay just £1 compensation to the 115 investors deceived by the promise of big profits from breeding the birds for meat. She was found guilty of theft and fraudulent trading last month while her husband Martin, facing similar charges, is on the run after fleeing the country.

But when she appeared for sentence at Swansea Crown Court, Judge Michael Burr angered her victims by suspending her sentence and ordering her to pay token compensation. He accepted the mother of three had been manipulated by her husband and was now penniless. But last night an investor, who did not want to be named and who lost £13,500 redundancy pay in the swindle, called the sentence an insult.

He said: 'Compensation of £1 means nothing, nor does a two-year suspended sentence. What sort of punishment is that? I invested £13,500, which was half my redundancy money. This has left a big hole in my bank account. This is an insult to everyone who lost money. There were pensioners who put all the money they had into this and now they have been left with nothing. Of course Martin Evans is the real crook but his wife knew what was going on.'

Judge Burr also banned Evans, 36, of Uplands, Swansea, from being involved in a company for 10 years. He told her she was not 'the innocent dupe' she claimed to be but accepted that her husband - once named Businessman of the Year in Wales - was mostly to blame. 'I am satisfied that the whole ostrich farm was set up from the beginning as a dishonest means of depriving investors of their money,' he added.

The ostrich farm was the idea of Evans' 38-year-old husband, who was an undischarged bankrupt, the court heard. He had just been released from prison after a 15-month sentence for fraud and had changed his name to beat credit checks.

The couple claimed to be farming the birds as an alternative to beef at the height of the BSE crisis five years ago. They set up the Ostrich Breeding Company with a farm at Dunvant, Swansea, and put advertisements in newspapers inviting potential investors. The swindle netted £850,000 in five months, mostly from American investors, but the firm collapsed. Liquidators found that the cash had vanished into a number of secret bank accounts including one in the Bahamas and one in the Channel Islands.

During the two-week trial, the jury was told Martin Evans loved the 'high life' and had run a string of businesses in the past, including a hairdressing salon, a video shop and a bar in Spain. He had a number of affairs and was once photographed cuddling a winner of the Miss World contest. An arrest warrant has been issued for him and police are making inquiries in Spain.
