A RESEARCHER for the former BBC TV daytime confessional chat show, Vanessa, recovered libel damages in the High Court yesterday over allegations that she knew that guests who appeared in the show to relate their stories were fakes.

Settlement was announced of a libel action brought by Deborah Price, of Milton Keynes, Bucks, against Mirror Group Newspapers over an article in the Mirror in February last year under the heading, 'Vanessa Show Faked: Abused wife was unmarried. Feuding sisters had never met'.

David Price, for Ms Price, told the judge, Mr Justice Eady, that the show, broadcast on weekday mornings on BBC1 and hosted by Vanessa Feltz, consisted of a live studio debate in which members of the public talked about their experiences.

The article, said Mr Price, disclosed that several guests who had appeared on the show purporting to relate true stories were in fact fakes who had invented the accounts they presented to viewers.

One item featured a woman who alleged that she wanted a divorce when in fact she was not married. Another concerned two women who claimed they were sisters when they were unrelated.

As researcher for the programme, Ms Price had arranged for the guests to appear on the show and the article went on to allege that not only were they fakes but that Ms Price had known this and had deliberately deceived her employers and viewers.

This allegation was bolstered by an extract from a telephone conversation between Ms Price and Tony Papotto, the agent responsible for finding the guests, that was published in the article and 'created a false impression of collusion on the part of Ms Price'.

The truth was that Ms Price neither knew nor suspected that any of these guests were fakes, her solicitor told the judge. She had taken 'reasonable steps to verify their authenticity' bearing in mind the constraints imposed on her by her employers.

The three fake guests all admitted they had sought to deceive Ms Price into believing they were genuine and had said they had no reason to believe Ms Price was aware that they were fakes. This was also shown by the conversation between Mr Price and Mr Papotto.

Ms Price, said her solicitor, was only 24 at the time and had been 'devastated'. From an early age her ambition was to work in television production. She was a 'hard-working, enthusiastic and valued member of the production team' and she was 'naturally very concerned about the effect of the article on her reputation and career'.

This was particularly so bearing in mind the considerable prominence of the article and the fact that the allegations were republished throughout the media.

Great upset was caused to her family, both by the distress caused to Ms Price and because they were approached at their home by numerous journalists.

The defendant, said Mr Price, now accepted there was no truth in the allegation that Ms Price knew the guests were fakes. It had agreed to apologise, to pay her a 'large sum' in damages together with her legal costs, and to undertake not to repeat the allegation.

Ms Price, he added, hoped she could now 'pursue a career in television production without a stain on her reputation'.



