A FAKE aristocrat gained wealth and position for 20 years when he was in reality a conman from Swindon, a court was told yesterday.

Marc St Leger, 51, convinced the aristocracy that he was the Marquis St Leger, 10th Viscount of Doneraile, Bristol Crown Court was told.

His alter ego was able to bank with Coutts, the Queen's bankers, and he joined a committee of Irish peers' the prosecution said.

He created a 'complete cast of fictional characters' to back his story. The 'innate snobbery' of members of the aristocracy allowed the defendant to gain money and jobs, the court was told.

In truth, Mr St Leger, who is facing seven charges of fraud, was born Keith Andrews and lived in a modest house with his elderly mother. 

Dion Tait, for the prosecution, said that Mr Andrews began leading a double life in about 1975, when he started calling himself Marc Philip Justin Onslow Berkeley St Leger Curzon.

Mr St Leger invented a whole new family tree for the real St Leger family - which can trace its history to the Norman conquest - taking advantage of a dispute in the line of succession, Mr Tait said. Mr St Leger claimed that his mother was Joy Chantal Helene de Burgoyne of Paris and Tours, and that he had been married to Marie-Louise, daughter of the Duc de Brissac of Paris.

Mr Tait said that Mr St Leger also claimed to have two sons but later told detectives that his wife and children had been killed in a car crash in Australia in 1975. He was, in fact, unmarried.

He was arrested in 1996 and among the charges that he faces is that he tried to obtain by deception credit balances from the estate of the late Ethel St Leger; obtained jobs with Wiltshire County Council and the Salvation Army using false CV and application form details; and attempted to secure a mortgage with the Bradford and Bingley Building Society by deception.

Mr Tait said: 'It is the Crown's case that the alter ego has been deliberately used to fool people, to impress people - perhaps to pander to some innate snobbery that people may have and perhaps to enhance his social standing - and also allowed him to mix with some members of the aristocracy, some of whom were fooled, and opened doors that otherwise would have been closed to him."

The case continues.



