Liverpool had seen nothing like it for 35 years. The city centre was at a standstill as Sir Paul McCartney returned to his roots to play the legendary Cavern Club, birthplace of the most famous rock and roll quartet in history.

In scenes reminiscent of Beatlemania, fans crushed outside the tiny venue and chanted "We want Paul". There were only 300 inside, with another 15,000 watching giant screens nearby. But the total audience - television, radio and internet, across the world - was in the millions.

Geoff Baker, Sir Paul's publicist, said that more than 50m attempts were made to access the concert on the Internet. Three million people managed to make connections and watch the show. "This is the biggest ever audience for a musical broadcast on the Internet. People were going wild," Mr Baker added. Tickets were subject to incalculable demand. Cavern director Bill Heckle revealed that he had been offered the use of a helicopter, a £10,000 holiday and even sexual favours in return for the prized admission. "Women have been blatantly propositioning me, trying to bribe me with their bodies," he gasped.

Four tickets for the gig sold for £4,000 each yesterday. One pair went to a couple of American self-confessed "Beatle nuts" who bought the tickets on the British online auction Qxl.com and then had a "mad scramble" to get a flight to Liverpool. The other pair went to British fans. Melanie Marshall, of Qxl.com, said: "We have never had such amazing response before." 

The £16,000 raised will go to the Linda McCartney charitable fund and the Give a Child a Chance charity. The rest of the 300 tickets for the gig went in a fans' lottery last week, Inside the venue, it felt as if history was being made.

A former member of the Merseybeats told how Sir Paul was "returning to his Beatles roots". Even John Lennon dropped by - that's John aka 18-year-old Ben Lomas, of Penny Lane, Liverpool, who changed his name by deed poll. Nobody seemed to mind that this was not the Cavern as was. The original was flattened by a car park, but a replica was rebuilt on the site in the 1980s.

Before appearing at a hastily convened press conference, Sir Paul admitted some commercial motives for his first gig at the Cavern since August 3 1963. "I've come back because I've done a rock 'n 'roll album called Run Devil Run and I'm plugging it," he said. "But basically what better way to rock out of the century? This is where it all began, and for me this is the way the century's gonna end with me playing rock n' roll, which is what made the Beatles last for so long and made us so good, I think - he said modestly' But I'm back here because I love Liverpool."

Outside, the lucky few clutched their tickets. One onlooker was Stan Cargill, 59, who claimed to have grown up in the same street as Lennon. A Cavern veteran and musician himself, Mr Cargill said: "John was a world class guitarist, but I was even better."