PHIL COLLINS, the rock star, yesterday began a High Court action against two former members of the band Earth, Wind and Fire, claiming he overpaid them £500,000 in royalties.

Collins, reputedly worth £300 million and who this week won an Oscar for best original movie song, is suing Louis Satterfield and Rahmlee Davies, who claim that they will be left destitute if they lose the case.

Satterfield, 62, who along with Davies was part of the American band's horn section, says he is badly in debt after spending large amounts of money on treatment for his late wife's cancer. Davies, 51, says he is so impoverished that most of his musical instruments are in a pawn shop.

Robert Howe, for Phil Collins Ltd, told Mr Justice Jonathan Parker that because of an accounting error, the pair were paid royalties on all 15 tracks of a live album put together during Collins's Serious world tour of 1990, when they were in the backing band. But he said the contract they signed entitled them to royalties on only five of the tracks to which they contributed, which included the hits Sussudio and Easy Lover. They claim they are entitled to royalties from the whole album.

By the time the alleged accounting error was discovered in March 1997, the pair had each been overpaid nearly $393,000 (£249,000), Mr Howe said. All royalty payments from Collins's accountants were stopped at that date, in order to start recouping the money 'owed'. Mr Howe said that, in effect, Collins's company wanted to continue nonpayment of the royalties, which amounted to $20,000 a year to each man.

Mr Justice Parker: 'That's not much, is it?'

Mr Howe: 'No, my Lord, it's not much.'

Mr Justice Parker: 'And that is what this action is about?'

Mr Howe: 'Yes, my Lord...'

Later, the judge said: 'I was struck by the fact that for more than six years these royalties were paid on a basis you say was mistaken and after six years there was a letter from the company's accountant saying 'Oh dear, we have made a mistake. We are not going to pay you any more royalties and we apologise for any confusion caused'.

'That's not a very attractive position, is it?'

Mr Howe said Davies and Satterfield were paid $2,500 (£l,600) a week when they rehearsed and $5,000 on the tour. He said their decision to sue Collins for non-payment of the royalties in California had forced the British musician to start proceedings here.

'It is no part of the case to disparage the defendants as musicians,' he said. 'They were excellent musicians. The claimant is not seeking to make either of the defendants put their hands into their pockets and pay back a penny,' he said. But he said the company wanted a declaration that it did not have to pay further royalties. The case continues.
