HE IS worth an estimated £300million. And on Sunday night he boosted his earnings potential even further when he tearfully accepted an Oscar for a hit tune from the film Tarzan.

But yesterday Phil Collins was being branded 'small-minded' after taking court action to try to stop two former backing musicians from each earning £13,000 a year in royalties from the sale of his records. Collins's company, Philip Collins Ltd, says It mistakenly overpaid horn players Rahmlee Michael Davis and Louis Batterfield - founder members of the American soul group Earth, Wind and Fire - after they accompanied him on a world tour in 1990.

The pair - now allegedly so poor that Davis, 51, has had to pawn most of his musical equipment - were entitled to royalties on any songs they played on when Collins released a live album from the tour.

They played on five tracks - Sussudio, Two Hearts, Easy Lover, Something Happened On The Way to Heaven and Who said I Would - but for six years afterwards were mistakenly paid as if they had played on all 15 tracks.

Eventually realising the error Collins's accountants tried to recoup the cash by stopping further payments. When the two musicians started legal proceedings in California, Collins took out a writ In the High Court claiming they each owed him more than £250,000.

Although he says he does not want them to pay him the money in a lump sum, he has stopped their royalty cheques until he has been fully compensated.

That, the court was told, amounted to about £13,000 a year. 'That's not much is it?' said the judge, Mr Justice Jonathan Parker when the case opened In Court 39 yesterday afternoon.

'No, my lord,' conceded Collins's barrister Robert Howe.

The court heard that Davis and Satterfield were paid more than £3,000 a week when they toured with Collins. Their royalties earned them nearly £400,000 each, but Collins now says they were only entitled to a third of it. Outside court Satterfield, 62, said he had spent some of his income trying to get medical treatment for his wife Blondie. She has since died from cancer. He said of Collins: 'I don't know why he is being so small-minded. We were his buddy buddies.'

The case continues. Collins will not be called to give evidence.
