POP singer Phil Coffins yesterday launched a High Court battle against two former members of Earth Wind and Fire, claiming he overpaid them £500,000 royalties.

Collins, who has just collected an Oscar for creating the best original movie song, wants an agreement to stop paying sums to the pair, who were in his backing band.

However Louis Satterfield, 61, and Rahmlee Davis, 51, claim they would be destitute if payments cannot restart.

Robert Howe, representing Phil Collins Ltd, told the court in London that an accounting error meant the two musicians had received royalties for all 15 tracks of a live album recorded during Collins' 1990 Serious tour.

But they had signed a contract agreeing they should only receive profits from five tracks to which they contributed, said Mr Howe.

Davis and Satterfield flew in from America to defend the action, saying they were entitled to royalties on the whole album.

Mr Justice Jonathan Parker heard that Collins was not seeking repayment because royalties to the two men had been stopped four years ago, meaning the bulk of overpayments had already been recovered.

Mr Howe said: 'The claimant is not seeking to make either defendant put his hands in his pockets to pay back a penny.' He added that Phil Collins wanted a declaration that he did not have to pay any more royalties.

Davis, of Studio City and Satterfield, of North Collette, both in California, worked with Collins in the 1980s, helping to produce several highly successful albums, including Face Value, in 1981, and But Seriously, in 1989.

Mr Howe said Davis and Satterfield were paid about £1,900 a week when they rehearsed with Collins and £3,750 a week while touring with him.

Mr Howe said that it was 'no part of the case to disparage the defendants as musicians'. He said: 'They were excellent musicians who were well rewarded for their work on the tour.'

The hearing was adjourned until today, when Davis and Satterfield are expected to give evidence.

Phil Collins will not be giving evidence.
