A MOTHER has won permission in the High Court for doctors to remove the womb of her 'extremely attractive' mentally handicapped adult daughter without her consent, to prevent her becoming pregnant.

The decision was condemned as 'outrageous' by the mental health charity Mind. Mencap, the charity for those with learning disabilities, said there appeared to be 'little medical justification for such an extreme measure',

The 28-year-old woman suffers from a severe learning disability and is incapable of giving or withholding consent to the operation. The Official Solicitor opposed the application on her behalf.

The mother, aged 54, wants a hysterectomy for her daughter to prevent her from becoming pregnant, which experts agree would be disastrous for her, and because she suffers from heavy periods. In his judgement, released yesterday, Mr Justice Wall, in the High Courts family division, said that the daughter, identified only as S L, was cared for by her mother, though she attended a day centre five days a week.

The mother was finding coping increasingly difficult and it was hoped that within 12 months S would find a permanent placement at an appropriate home. She was incapable of managing her own affairs, had limited speech and suffered from mood swings.

He said the mother was anxious that the young woman, away from her close and careful supervision, would form an emotional attachment with a man and become pregnant. 'Or, and this I think is the real anxiety, that in what the mother described as 'this cruel world' S may become pregnant as a result of a man either taking advantage of her or raping her.'

The judge said that she was an 'extremely attractive young woman'. If she became pregnant, 'she would have no understanding of what was happening to her. She would be completely unable to care for a child. The whole process would be frightening and traumatic for her.'

In opposing the move, the Official Solicitor had argued that there was no indication in the young woman's way of life to suggest any change in her attitude towards men. She had an obsession with cleanliness and bodily functions and it was argued that she was unlikely to find sex either attractive or pleasurable.

The judge said: 'The Official Solicitor also argues that when S leaves home she is likely to live in single-sex accommodation and the level of supervision will make it unlikely that she will be subjected to an involuntary or non-consensual act of sexual intercourse.

He argues that the risk of pregnancy is speculative, and that there is insufficient evidence for the court to find that there is an identifiable risk.'

The judge concluded that, though the point was finely balanced', there was an identifiable risk of pregnancy.

The absence of her mother would reduce the level of supervision and 'increase her vulnerability to an exploitative relationship'. It would also increase the probability that S would seek affection from others.'

Although he did 'not underestimate the effects of surgery', the judge said: 'I am of the clear view that it is in S's best interests for her periods to come to an end and for the risk of pregnancy to be wholly removed.'

He said the operation would 'enhance the quality of her life' and a 'laparoscopic sub-total hysterectomy', leaving the ovaries and cervix intact, was the 'preferred option'.

A spokesman for the Official Solicitor said yesterday that he would appeal. Judi Clements, chief executive of Mind, said that she was 'horrified to hear a judge making the decision that a woman should have invasive surgery and take away any sense of her autonomy as a human being'.

Others also criticised the decision. A spokesman for Mencap said the charity believed hysterectomy was only in a woman's best interest if it was based on health, not social grounds.

'The judge seems to have placed excessive emphasis on social concerns,' he said. 'While we respect the mother's anxiety, a judgement based on a fear of what might happen in the future would not necessarily be acting in her daughter's best interests.'

Sandra Simkin, author of The Case Against Hysterectomy, condemned the judgement as 'brutal' and a 'barbarity'. She said: 'She can be treated for heavy periods without hysterectomy.'

Drug treatments and simple surgical procedures were available, she said, while the removal of the womb could bring on early menopause. A spokesman for the charity Well Being, which specialises in research on women's health, said: 'In general terms hysterectomy should be a last resort in the treatment of heavy periods.'

Last month the Appeal Court ruled that a 28-year-old man with Down's Syndrome should not undergo a vasectomy without his consent. Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss said then that there could be stronger arguments in favour of sterilising a woman.
