A MOTHER has won a legal battle for the right to make her mentally handicapped daughter have a hysterectomy.

She claimed the operation was the only way she could ensure that the 28-year-old, who has severe learning difficulties, would never get pregnant.

The 54-year-old widow took her case to the High Court in London after opposition from the Official Solicitor, Laurence Oates, who acts for those not capable of looking after their own legal interests.

Counsel for the daughter argued that the operation was unnecessary. But a judge supported the mother's request after finding that the daughter, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was incapable of managing her own life. The court heard she was 'extremely attractive' and affectionate and could easily be taken advantage of. It was claimed that any pregnancy would be a 'disaster' for her. She would have no understanding of what was happening. Pregnancy would be frightening and traumatic and she would be unable to care for a child, the court was told.

Yesterday the daughter, identified during the hearing as 'S', was at home with her mother and sister.

The mother told the Daily Mail: 'This has been very difficult and distressing. It has left the whole family upset but all along we have only been acting in my daughter's very best interests. A neighbour said S was part of a close, loving family.

'The daughter is a lovely looking girl and could easily become prey to some very unsavoury and unscrupulous characters,' she said.

'There's no doubt that she would not be able to look after a baby. She could never deal with that - she has to be supervised nearly all the time and never ventures out of the house alone.'

It is understood that S is unable to speak properly and cannot read or write. The family has been involved In a legal battle for several years to ensure she never gets pregnant.

Last night mental health experts said the case raised serious ethical issues.

David Congdon, director of public affairs at Mencap, said: 'Mencap believes that a hysterectomy is only in a person's best interests if based on health rather than social grounds.'

The High Court heard that the daughter, who is from Cheshire, is cared for by her mother and attends a day centre five days a week. Her father died at 43 in 1989, and her mother has been finding it increasingly difficult to cope with her. Within the next 12 months she is expected to get a permanent place at a local residential home. Delivering his decision, the judge, Mr Justice Wall, said he was acting in the best interests of the girl after being shown two photographs of her and being told she was quite capable of affection. 'The experts are unanimous that it would be highly detrimental to S's welfare were she to become pregnant,' he said. 'She would not understand the process.'

'The real anxiety is that in what the mother described as 'this cruel world' S may become pregnant as a result of a man either taking advantage of her or raping her.'

All those who had examined or come into contact with S believed that pregnancy would be disastrous for her, he said. The judge said there was an 'Identifiable risk' of her becoming pregnant. While in her mother's day-to-day care the risk was remote, but the situation would change If she left home.

The Judge said the absence of S's mother would inevitably reduce the level of supervision and 'increase her vulnerability to an exploitative relationship'.

It would also increase the probability that S would seek affection from others.

He said he did not under estimate the effects of surgery on S. 'But take into account that if the operation is performed in the near future and before she moves to sheltered accommodation, her mother will be available to be with her and to help her through the process,' he said.

Counsel for the daughter said she did not need the operation.

When S left home she was likely to live in single sex accommodation and under close supervision, making it highly unlikely she would ever have a sexual relationship.

The court heard that S also suffered from some menstrual problems.

The judge ruled a hysterectomy would be more suitable than sterilisation because it would relieve her symptoms as well.

Later, Mencap spokesman Mr Congdon said: 'Although such cases are difficult, the judge seems to have placed excessive emphasis on social concerns and we can see little medical justification for such an extreme measure.

'Whilst we respect the mother's anxiety, a Judgement based on a fear of what might happen in the future would not necessarily be acting in her daughter's best interests.' Ann Hunt, of the Tuberous Sclerosis group which offers support to families with disabled relatives, said: 'Allowing a hysterectomy seems a rather extreme measure.'

She said It was right that such a difficult decision had been referred to a High Court Judge instead of being left to the parents.

She added: 'It is clearly a very difficult and sensitive situation that makes it difficult to know whose Interests are being protected.

'The Interests of both the young woman herself and those who look after her seem to have been taken into consideration here.'
