A MOTHER who fears that her mentally handicapped daughter may be taken advantage of and become pregnant has won the right for her to undergo a hysterectomy.

In a landmark ruling, a senior High Court family judge, Mr Justice Wall, said that the 28-year-old daughter was incapable of managing her own affairs. The widowed mother, aged 54, argued that a hysterectomy was the most effective way that her daughter, referred to in court as S, could be fully protected.

The judge overruled objections by Laurence Oates, the Official Solicitor, who acts for those not capable of looking after their own legal interests. He had argued that the operation was not necessary.

Although the daughter attends a day centre five days a week she is being cared for by her mother. The mother is finding it increasingly difficult to cope and it is hoped that S will have a permanent placement at an appropriate home within a year. The judge said that the mother was anxious that, away from her close and careful supervision, S would form an emotional attachment with a man resulting in sexual intercourse and pregnancy.

He continued: 'Or, and this I think is the real anxiety, that in what the mother described as 'this cruel world' S may become pregnant as a result of a man either taking advantage of her or raping her'.

It was common ground among all who had encountered S that pregnancy would be disastrous for her, he said. 'She would have no understanding of what was happening. She would be completely unable to care for a child. The whole process would be frightening and traumatic for her.'

The mother sought a hysterectomy rather than sterilisation because S suffered from heavy periods, which she did not understand, and a hysterectomy would solve both problems. The Official Solicitor had argued that there was no indication in S's way of life to suggest any change in her attitude towards men, and that she was unlikely to find sexual relations attractive.

The judge said: 'The Official Solicitor also argues that when S leaves home, she is likely to live in a single-sex accommodation and the level of supervision in her life will be sufficiently high to make it unlikely that she will be subjected to an involuntary or non-consensual act of sexual intercourse. He argues that the risk of pregnancy is speculative and that there is insufficient evidence for the court to find that there is an identifiable risk.'

He said, however, that although the point was 'finely balanced' there was an identifiable risk of pregnancy. While in her mother's daily care the risk was remote but the situation would change if she left home. The absence of her mother would inevitably reduce the level of supervision and 'increase her vulnerability to an exploitative relationship.' It would also increase the probability that S, who despite her disabilities enjoys social activities such as swimming and horse-riding, would seek affection.

Ruling that the hysterectomy could go ahead the judge said: 'In my judgement the court is entitled to declare lawful a particular course of treatment if that treatment is itself proper and in the interests of the patient. I am of the clear view that it is in S's best interests for her periods to come to an end and for the risk of pregnancy to be wholly removed.'

In those circumstances his view was that the proposed therapeutic 'laparoscopic subtotal hysterectomy' was the 'preferred option'. The judge gave leave for the Official Solicitor to appeal.
