SIX HOURS after being released from prison, rapist Kevin Chambers struck again. Yesterday the 36-year-old was jailed for life after being found guilty of two counts of rape.

Ipswich Crown Court heard that Chambers' attack on a 19 year-old woman had been caught on the town centre's security cameras and a CCTV operator had tracked him through the streets as he left the scene.

In ordering him to serve at least 12 years, Judge Beddard described Chambers, of Colchester, Essex, as a menace, adding that women were not safe while he walked the streets. 'These were particularly brutal offences in which a young woman walking home through Ipswich town centre was grabbed by you, forced down into a public subway, threatened and subjected to being raped twice over a period of several minutes.'

The judge said the experience had so traumatised the victim that it was a full five days before she could go to the police.  He added: 'You are now subject to a mandatory life sentence and even if that were not now the law I would have imposed a life sentence in any case.' The assault came in the early hours of September 8 last year, the day after the rapist was released from Wormwood Scrubs prison where he had served less than four years of a six-year term for a similar offence.

The jury was told that he attacked the woman in an underpass in the town centre within sight of closed circuit television cameras. The operator monitoring the cameras immediately alerted police and tracked Chambers through the streets as he left the scene. He was stopped by police and questioned, but at the time officers did not know exactly what had happened. He was arrested in Colchester two days later.

During police interviews Chambers, who had travelled to Ipswich in search of accommodation, denied having been in the St Matthew's Street underpass where the rapes took place. But his victim picked him out in an identity parade and evidence against him was given by a facial analysis expert who linked him to the man shown or the camera footage. Judge Beddard praised the CCTV operator as well as the prompt actions of the police.

He said: 'If she had not beer as alert as she was and acted very quickly so the police intercepted the man, he would have disappeared without trace, it seems to me. There is no forensic evidence. It is really due to her and the speed with which the police operated that this extremely dangerous man was apprehended so quickly.'

Chambers will be placed on the Sex Offenders Register for life and his case will not be considered by the Parole Board until at least 2005. He pleaded guilty to rape at Chelmsford Crown Court in June 1996 and has a string of previous convictions for theft and firearms offences.

After the verdict, Detective Inspector David Cole, of Ipswich CID, said: 'I am pleased with the verdict. I think the judge correctly reflected in his summing up that these terrible offences generated feelings of outrage and disgust and I would echo those comments.'