A MAN freed from prison after serving half of a six-year sentence for rape struck again within 24 hours of his release.

Kevin Chambers, 36, was found guilty at Ipswich Crown Court yesterday of twice raping a 19-year-old woman in an underpass in the town last September.

Judge Nicholas Beddard sentenced him to life imprisonment with a minimum of 12 years for what he described as 'particularly brutal offences'. The judge added: 'It is clear that a man who did what you did on your first day of liberty is a menace from whom no woman is safe while he is walking the streets.'

Chambers, of Mile End Road, Colchester, was caught by police after being filmed by closed circuit television. The camera operator saw something suspicious on one of the television screens in the control room which flick between pictures from 82 cameras covering the centre of Ipswich. She punched a few details into her keyboard and projected the picture on to a screen in front of her to see what was going on.

Stopping only to contact police, who could also see the pictures, she 'followed' Chambers as he left the underpass and switched to another camera which zoomed in on him as he walked from the town centre. Less than a quarter of a mile away, police stopped him.

The control room, run by Ipswich council, has about 24 television screens with cameras covering subways, car parks and town centre streets. Two officers monitor the screens at all times.

Community safety officer Jim Manning said: 'It has made quite a big difference in some areas. In other cases we have tracked people right through the town centre for a mile or more.'

Although Chambers's victim was too traumatised to come forward until five days later, she later picked him out at an identity parade. Praising Rita Mahoney, the CCTV operator, the judge, said: 'If she had not been so alert in quickly contacting the police and getting them to intercept this man, he would have disappeared without trace.' Chambers denied the, attack and claimed that he had never been near the, subway.

The jury, of eight men and, three women, who did not know of his previous conviction before their verdict, took less than two hours to find him guilty. Judge Beddard said he would have given him a life sentence even if it were not mandatory for a second rape under the 1997 Crime Sentencing Act.

Chambers was jailed for six years at Chelmsford Crown. Court in 1996 after, pleading guilty to raping a woman in Clacton. He was released from Wormwood Scrubs on Sept 7 last year after getting time off for good behaviour.
