AN ENGLISH couple who say racist villagers forced them to quit their retirement home In the Scottish Borders were claiming victory last night. 

Frank and Sandra Walters reached an out of court settlement - believed to be a 'no-fault' payment of £9,000. They had sued publican Colin Pearson and his wife Jacqueline, a postmistress, for £20,000 under the Race Relations Act. 

Mr Walters, 52, and his 53-year-old wife claimed the Pearsons barred them from the Farmers' Inn In Clarencefield, Dumfriesshlre, which doubles as the village post office. The couple, who are both disabled and planned a peaceful retirement when they moved to Clarencefield in 1997, alleged they had been the target of racist taunts from a clique of pub regulars. Villagers abused them to their face and by phone, put rubbish outside their door and waved placards saying 'English Out', Mr and Mrs Walters claimed.

The Scottish anthem Flower of Scotland was said to have been played on the pub jukebox 16 times when Mr Walters was present. 'It was obviously directed at me,' he said. 'It was also played very loudly outside our home at night.'

Mr and Mrs Walters said they became aware of hostility from 'certain persons' In the village 'because they were English'. Mr Walters was told by Mr Pearson he was not welcome to play in a pool competition at the Farmers' Inn. 'I was told it was because no one liked me,' he said.

The Pearsons claimed Mr Walters tended to be arrogant towards younger players in the pool room and they did not want him in the competition, although It was denied he was barred from entering.

About three months later Mrs Walters went into the post office within the pub and was told she was not welcome and asked to leave, the couple claimed. The following day; Mr Waiters received a solicitor's letter giving formal notice that he was banned from the pub, without any reason being given.

Backed by the Commission for Racial Equality, Mr and Mrs Walters sued under the Race Relations Act alleging racial discrimination, loss, Injury; damage, distress and inconvenience. 

Their case, due to be heard at Dumfries Sheriff Court yesterday, was said to highlight a growing anti-English tendency In some parts of Scotland. 

Under the settlement, Mr Pearson, 42, and his 32-year-old wife did not admit any liability for racial discrimination but agreed In addition to pay an estimated £40,000 in legal costs.

The Pearsons will have to find the cash out of their own pockets. They were not insured against the kind of legal action they faced and had told friends they feared bankruptcy If the case had gone to trial and they lost. Mr and Mrs Walters, who have five children and 19 grandchildren, now live on the English side of the border In Cumbria.

After the settlement, Liverpool-born Mr Walters, a former teacher of mentally handicapped children, said: 'I'm happy it has been settled. I still believe It was down to nationality.' 

He is in a wheelchair and was due to have a heart bypass soon.

Mrs Walters, the aunt of former Take That singer Gary Barlow and originally from the Manchester area, said she still held the Scottish people generally In the highest regard. 'The Scots are the best in the world,' she said. 'We lived In Scotland for over ten years and we never had any problem. There were just a few in this village who made our lives a misery; it mustn't happen to anyone else. Today's settlement is not a victory for the English. It is a victory for the majority of decent Scots people. We are absolutely delighted.'

Outside the court, the Pearsons' solicitor John Lawson dismissed suggestions that the couple were anti-English, saying Mr Pearson's father was from Birmingham and half the village was of English origin. He added: 'We should reiterate that Mr and Mrs Pearson do not admit any liability of racial discrimination against anyone.'

Mr Pearson, accompanied by his pregnant wife, said: 'This has been a stressful time for us. I'm glad it's behind us and we can get on with our lives.'

Asked if he was racist, he replied: 'Certainly not.' 

He denied the court settlement was an admission that he would not have won if the case had proceeded. Asked for his views on the implications of the case, he said: 'I would ask other publicans to be wary.'

The Commission for Racial Equality said: 'We are pleased to state that the parties have agreed an out of court settlement between them without admission of liability on the part of the defenders. 'In all the circumstances, Mr and Mrs Walters have found the whole case very stressful and now look forward to a quiet retirement.'