BRILLIANT schoolgirl Lydia Morgan died when a boozed-up driver mowed her down as he raced from cops.

Maniac Raymond Albert - caged for 71/2 years yesterday - ploughed into the 16-year-old on a pavement as she walked to her gran's.

A-level student Lydia, who dreamed of becoming a doctor like her dad, suffered horrific head injuries.

Pursuing police found her dying in the street - as callous Albert, 28, sat in his stalled old banger frantically trying to restart it.

The brute, who had been banned from the road for a PREVIOUS drink-drive offence, was more than three times the limit. He had been on an all-day pub binge, sinking at least six pints of lager before climbing behind the wheel of his £100 Rover 213 to drive for cigarettes.

Police in his home town of Merthyr Tydfil, South Wales, pulled him over after he almost hit another car.

Prosecutor Richard Twomlow told the local crown court: 'As one of the officers got out of his car Albert looked directly at him, took a drag on his cigarette and drove off at speed.'

The drunk rammed two cars out of the way. A group of terrified women also had to leap out of his path. Finally he lost control, ricocheting off a parked taxi and smashing into a bus shelter before hitting Lydia.

The youngster, who had four GCSE A-grades and five Bs, never regained consciousness.

Jobless Albert, who told police he felt 'dreadful,' pleaded guilty to causing death by dangerous driving.

He also admitted driving while disqualified, driving with excess alcohol and having no insurance.

Judge John Curran told him: 'This is a bad case. No comment or sentence can ever put right the permanent feelings of loss, grieving and devastation which are suffered by victims' families.'

But road safety campaigners slammed the jail term.

Tony Dring, chairman of the Campaign Against Drink-Driving, said: 'This young girl had everything ahead of her - so much hope and so much promise. But it was taken away by a drunk in a car.

'He'll be out in little more than three years but her family will never get their daughter back.

'It makes a mockery of Jack Straw saying the Government will clamp down on drunk drivers.'

Lydia's mother Merril was too upset to see her daughter's killer being sent to jail yesterday.

But her dad Dr Colin Morgan, a Merthyr Tydfil GP, watched from the public gallery. After the hearing he said: 'We were warned that it might not be a very heavy sentence. But nothing will bring her back to us.'
