The full range of charges against Augusto Pinochet were revealed yesterday for the first time at the start of the formal extradition proceedings against the former Chilean dictator.

The 35 charges detail horrific acts of torture, including electric shocks, beatings, threats of execution, burnings, partial asphyxiation and sexual abuse carried out by the Chilean security forces during the final 15 months of Pinochet's 17-year regime.

In five cases, including that of Luis Orlando Vargas Miranda, who threw himself from a fifth storey window to escape the beatings, the torture led to the victim's death.

It took the clerk of the court at Bow Street magistrates court in London 15 minutes to read out the full list compiled by campaigning Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon, whose extradition request in October last year led to the general's arrest.

Pinochet, 83, was not in court. Instead he remained under police guard at a rented mansion on the Wentworth estate in Surrey. But plenty of the general's opponents and supporters had gathered underneath the imposing whitewashed columns of the renovated Royal Opera House opposite the court.

Fenced-in by separate enclosures of steel barricades, they resembled opposing fans at a football match, waving banners and shouting insults at each other. The gleaming laminated placards of the Chilean Reconciliation Committee contrasted with the photocopied pamphlets of the anti-Pinochet supporters, who were outnumbered by three to one for most of the day.

Opening the case for the government of Spain, Alun Jones QC said the charges against Pinochet constituted 'some of the most serious allegations of crime ever to come before English criminal courts'.

He told deputy chief metropolitan magistrate Ronald Bartle that, according to the 1984 convention against torture, an act of torture by any public official anywhere in the world is an offence by UK law. 'It is facile to argue in the modern world these offences are a matter for Chile and no one else.'

Mr Jones said, that even after the worst years of the regime were over, Pinochet and his cohorts continued with their conspiracy to torture. By refusing to tell the families of the 1,198 people who were forcibly disappeared by the Chilean security forces what had happened to their loved ones they were subjecting them to 'mental pain, suffering and demoralisation',

Mr Jones told the deputy chief metropolitan stipendiary magistrate Ronald Bartle that it was not his role to decide whether Pinochet was guilty, nor did Spain have to prove there was a case to answer. The present hearing simply had to assess whether Pinochet was accused of an extraditable crime.

Clive Nicholls QC, representing the general, argued that Mr Bartle was confined to considering only the allegations contained in the original Spanish extradition request. He told the magistrate that when he opened the defence case today he would argue that Pinochet was not responsible for the alleged crimes.

The only words heard from the general all day came from Detective Inspector Andrew Hewitt, who issued a full arrest warrant on Pinochet at his Wentworth home on April16. 'I have absolutely nothing to do with any of these charges. I am being completely humiliated', he told the Scotland Yard detective.

'I am a general of 64 years and a gentleman who knows about honour. Don't worry that I am going to comply with this. That's it'.

The hearing continues today.
