THE list of General Augusto Pinochet's alleged torture victims was six pages and 34 names long, and it took magistrates' clerk Gaynor Houghton-Jones 15 minutes to read them out yesterday and try to calmly say what had happened to them.

Wilson Fernando Valdebenito Juica, for instance, a Left wing mine worker given electric shocks until he was dead.

Dolores Paz Cautivo Ahumada, beaten up in front of her five-year-old daughter- Luis Orlando Vargas Miranda, committed suicide by jumping from the fifth floor of the former Chilean dictator's national intelligence bureau, the CNI, after being beaten and subjected to 'severe mental pain or suffering'.

The names - eight of them of women, six of them ending in death - stuttered from Miss Houghton-Jones's lips as she struggled with the pronunciation in the latest round of the tussle for the 83-year old general's frail frame at Bow Street Magistrates' Court in London.

The general himself, who flatly denies any responsibility, was excused an appearance as the long process to extradite him to Spain crawled into its 11th month, while the legal meter ticked towards £4 million.

He remained in his private and very upmarket bail hostel in Wentworth, Surrey, as the Spanish Government asked magistrate Ronald Bartle to rule that the extradition mechanism was all in order. Home Secretary Jack Straw, who has refused to let the general go home, will be the final arbiter.

Outside the court, Pinochet supporters waved their Chilean flags and roared slogans; Just six feet up the pavement outside the Royal Opera House and separated by a crash barrier and two police constables, his opponents waved similar flags and chanted the opposite message.

Stuffy little Courtroom One, which in its 260 years has played host to Oscar Wilde, Dr Crippen, the Kray twins, Asil Nadir and Jonathan Aitken, was wall to oak panelled wall with lawyers, government officials and journalists. Court 2 was wired for sound to be a media annexe for Spanish and South American journalists; Court 3 was for the representatives of the factions outside. The charges, said the Spanish Government's English barrister, Alun Jones QC, were 'some of the most serious allegations of crime ever to come before an English criminal court'. The first - so long that it took a minute and a half for Miss Houghton-Jones to read - said that between December 1988 and March 1990, General Pinochet 'and others had agreed to abduct and torture people who were seen as a threat. Some would be killed and the pain and suffering of others would not stop even if they blurted out information. Instead the torture would be intensified as a message to others who might 'be disposed to criticise or oppose'.

General Pinochet was also accused of deliberately concealing information about the 4,000 people said to have simply disappeared in the time of his military junta from 1973 to 1990 50 that families would be caused 'severe mental pain, suffering and demoralisation'.

The remaining charges all said that as Commander in Chief of the Chilean Army he had 'jointly with other public officials intentionally inflicted severe pain or suffering' on prisoners.

Pedro Alberto Ciudad Palma, for instance had allegedly been left hanging by his arms from a ceiling and given electric shocks. Lincoyan Nery Caceres Pena, 61, had suffered an epileptic fit and died after a beating; Jessica Antonia Liberona Ninoles had been penned in a two square metre cell for 20 days and stripped naked for questioning. Her nine-year-old daughter was threatened.

Andrea Fabiola Oyarzun Alvarado and her daughter Hilda were kept 'in conditions of acute physical discomfort'; Marcos Quezada Yanez, 17, is said to have died from electric shocks; Patricia Irrazaval was denied food or water for 48 hours; Hector Raul Irrazaval was suspended by his arms and later executed.

Juan Fuentes Sepulveda was allegedly wrapped in electric wires in a torture known as 'the grill'; they are said to have played Russian roulette with Claudio Tapia Orellano and subjected Andrea Paulsen Figuera to a punishment called 'the telephone' while threatening her five-year-old daughter.

Mercifully, Mr Jones did not go into any more detail yesterday. 'The crimes were allegedly committed by General Pinochet in the course of the exercise of government power as head of state in the purpose of maintaining it,' he told the magistrate.

'We are not here to determine whether General Pinochet is or is not guilty; we are not even here to determine whether there is evidence of guilt. Your limited function is to determine whether he is accused of these extradition crimes.'

Mr Jones said even though Britain was not directly involved, it had to comply with international law on torture signed by itself, Spain and Chile in 1984 and allow the extradition to go ahead.

The court heard how the immaculately dressed General Pinochet, who had flown to London for medical treatment last year, had reacted angrily when Detective Inspector Andrew Hewitt had arrested him.

'I don't agree with this,' the general had said. 'I have absolutely nothing to do with any of these charges. I'm being humiliated. I'm a general of 64 years service and a gentleman of honour.'

His counsel, Clive Nicholls QC, told the court yesterday: 'His primary concern is that he is not responsible for the criminal conduct which he is accused of. Nobody had suggested that he is directly responsible for any of the appalling crimes which are alleged here.

'His primary position is that he is not responsible. His hand is not on these deeds.'

The extradition hearing is expected to last five days.
