GENERAL Augusto Pinochet was accused of 'some of the most serious allegations of crime ever to come before 'English criminal courts', a QC representing the Spanish government told the start of an extradition hearing in London yesterday.

The former Chilean dictator had been accused of thousands of crimes against humanity during his 17-year military rule between 1973-1990, Alun Jones, QC, told Bow Street magistrates' court, while outlining 35 charges of torture and conspiracy to torture against the 83-year-old general.

The charges, which took the clerk of the court 16 minutes to read out, included allegations of torture involving brutal beatings and burnings, the enforced use of hallucinogenic drugs, interrogating a naked woman and electric shock treatment that led to the deaths of several victims.

He argued that the general, who is in declining health, should be extradited to Spain to face trial on the charges levelled against him by Judge Baltasar Garzon, a Spanish examining magistrate who has investigated human rights abuses in Chile during Gen Pinochet's rule.  Mr Jones told Ronald Bartle, the deputy Metropolitan stipendiary magistrate that the court did not have to decide Pinochet's guilt and Spain did not even have to prove there was a case to answer against the general.

The only question to be resolved was whether the  general had been accused of extraditable crimes, he said. Mr Jones argued that the allegations against Pinochet 'constitute some of the most serious allegations of crime ever to come before English criminal courts' and it was 'simply facile' for the Chilean government and supporters of Gen Pinochet to argue that the offences were a matter for Chile and no one else.

He explained that since the Second World War international law had expanded and under the 1984 International Torture Convention, which was ratified by Britain in 1988, Spain had jurisdiction to put the general on trial for torture,despite none of the victims in the charges being Spanish or the offences not occurring in Spain.

'We are not engaged in these proceedings in consideration to some broad, sweeping rhetorical declarations of international intent, We are considering black-lettered UK law,' said Mr Jones.

The House of Lords, in an earlier judgement on the Pinochet case, ruled that the general could not be extradited for torture offences pre-dating Dec 8, 1988, the date at which the treaty was ratified by the British Government.

But Mr Jones argued that the court could examine events in Chile which preceded that date because the impact on the families of victims tortured before then continued long afterwards and itself amounted to a form of torture.

Explaining the first charge against Gen Pinochet, that between Dec 7, 1988, and March 12, 1990, he conspired with others to torture political opponents, Mr Jones told the court that even after many of the torture offences were committed, the torture was effectively continued by keeping the relatives of some 1,198 of the 'disappeared' in the dark as to what had happened to them.

'It is our case that the continuing offence of conspiracy to torture after December 1988 has, as one of its objects, that the fate of these people would continue to be concealed from families causing severe mental pain, suffering and demoralisation,' said Mr Jones.

The remaining 34 charges detailed alleged offences of torture against named individuals in Chile on dates between late December 1988 and the end of 1989. The hearing is expected to last five days and Mr Bartle will reserve his decision until a later date, when Gen Pinochet will have to be present.

Outside the court, hundreds of pro and anti-Pinochet supporters noisily gathered beneath the refurbished Royal Opera House chanting slogans, waving Chilean flags and banners. Each group was restrained by police in a fenced pen. Joan Garces, one of the legal advisers to President Altende, the elected Marxist whom Gen Pinochet deposed in a coup in 1973, was one of the Spanish lawyers in court to hear the proceedings,

Clive Nicholls, QC, for the general, unsuccessfully asked Mr Bartle to hear arguments supporting his case that Spain did not have jurisdiction to put the former dictator on trial and that he should only face charges contained in the original Spanish extradition request on Nov 3 last year, 29 of which were rejected by the Law Lords in March. The magistrate ruled that they were matters he could deal with in his judgement at the conclusion of the proceedings.

Mr Nicholls told the court that Gen Pinochet's position was that he was not responsible for the crimes he was accused of, there was no evidence implicating him in the crimes and Spain had no jurisdiction to put him on trial. 'He feels these charges are politically motivated.'

The hearing continues.
