HORRIFIC details of the alleged torture of 34 people, for which General Augusto Pinochet could be tried in Spain, emerged yesterday as extradition proceedings against him got under way.

The victims, 26 men and eight women, were named in court. They were said to have endured electric shocks to their genitals, severe beatings and mock executions, leading to the deaths of four of them.

Akin Jones, QC, for the Crown Prosecution Service, acting on behalf of Spain. spent about 30 minutes reading out a litany of allegations, said to have been the result of orders from the former Chilean dictator, to a packed Bow Street Magistrates' Court in Central London.

Mr Jones said that among the dead were Claudio Torrealba Torrealba. a young university student who was beaten and given electric shocks, and Luis Orlando Vargas Miranda, 58, who jumped from a fifth floor window rather than face prolonged torture.

Another, Edmundo Meza Schaffer, had been hung from a beam and beaten before being tied to a metal chair with his feet in a bucket of water and subjected to electric shocks for two hours. A tube had been inserted into his rectum, and when he was unable to bear the pain any longer, he had signed a false declaration admitting unspecified crimes.

Mr Jones told the court that the cases 'do indeed constitute some of the most serious allegations of crime ever to come before English criminal courts'. They were committed. he said, when General Pinochet was Commander in Chief of the Chilean Army, and therefore on his orders.

The court was told that General Pinochet, who has been excused from attending because of ill health, has consistently maintained that he was not responsible. According to a police statement, General Pinochet, 83, told his arresting officer: 'I don't agree with this. All those charges I completely negate. I have nothing to do with any of the charges. I am being humiliated. I am a general of 64 years' service and a gentleman of honour.'

Clive Nicholls, QC, for the former Chilean dictator, said there was no evidence to implicate the general, that Spain had no jurisdiction in relation to the allegations, and that the prosecution was politically motivated.

Mr Jones argued that the UK, Spain and Chile had all signed the 1984 International Convention Against Torture which had been embodied in the Criminal Justice Act, 1988. The House of Lords had ruled in March that General Pinochet's immunity from prosecution as head of state had therefore run out in 1988. He had not left office until 1990 and therefore could be prosecuted for tortures allegedly committed in the last two years of his dictatorship.

Mr Jones went on to say that under the 1989 Extradition Act there was no need to furnish the court with evidence of the crimes alleged merely so show that the defendant had been accused of crimes punishable by more than one year in prison.

He told Ronald Battle, the magistrate: 'It must be emphasised that we are not here to determine whether General Pinechet is or is not guilty of these offences, or whether there is evidence of this guilt. Your limited function, sir, is to determine whether he is accused of these extradition crimes.

'The House of Lords have said, to all intents and purposes, that they are extradition crimes. It would be a strange consequence if, after the Lords made these findings, it was determined by this court that they were not.' The hearing continues.
