Most of the torture charges against Augusto Pinochet are little more than cases of police brutality for which he cannot be blamed, the formal extradition hearing against the former Chilean dictator was told yesterday.

On the second day of the hearing at Bow Street magistrates court, London, Julian Knowles, acting for Pinochet, said there was no evidence to link him to any of the brutal acts of torture highlighted in the 35 charges.

'It is clear that Senator Pinochet is not accused in Spain of being a principal, of actually having had his hand on the act,' said Mr Knowles. 'The case is that he gave the orders, that he was a counsellor.'

Instead, he argued, 'the essential allegation against Senator Pinochet is that tortures were committed in Chile as part of a policy that began around the time of the coup in September 1973.

'We say it is plain that having a mere policy doesn't make you liable as a secondary party for any act of torture, committed anywhere in Chile, by anyone, at any time, in the subsequent 17 years.'

Mr Knowles said the majority were nothing more than cases of 'police brutality the like of which occurred in democracies all over the world'.

Alun Jones QC, acting on behalf of the government of Spain, told the court he would seek an adjournment to have time to consider new documentation served on him that alleged the prosecution case against Pinochet, 83, was politically motivated.

It alleged the case was prompted by political antagonism in Spain to Pinochet's overthrow in 1973 of the socialist government in Chile led by Salvadore Allende. It also alleged that the prosecution was tainted by, in Mr Jones's words, 'barely concealed political bias'.

Mr Jones acknowledged that the case had involved some legal rough and tumble, but he told the court that he resented what he called 'this shabby and underhand' attempt to bring forward such arguments at such a late point in the proceedings.

Earlier Clive Nicholls QC, for Pinochet, urged deputy chief metropolitan magistrate Ronald Bartle to strike out 33 of the 35 allegations against him because they had been filed after the Spanish authorities filed their original extradition request.

He also argued the extradition should be halted because the Spanish authorities had failed to establish jurisdiction over the alleged crimes. 'What is not established is that Spain has jurisdiction,' Mr Nicholls said.

The hearing continues today.
