A BARRISTER acting for the Spanish authorities in extradition proceedings against Gen Augusto Pinochet accused his lawyers of shabby and underhand tactics yesterday for presenting 'last-minute' defence arguments.

Alun Jones, QC, said he had been 'ambushed' by the former Chilean dictator's legal team and that the defence argument had been served in written form on Monday evening, after the hearing had started at Bow Street magistrates court, London.

He said: 'It is shabby and underhand to bring forward these allegations at such a late stage.'

The general's lawyers claim that a Spanish judge's attempts to extradite him to stand trial in Madrid for alleged human rights abuses was politically motivated. They also claimed that Spain did not have jurisdiction to put the general on trial.

Mr Jones said the so-called skeleton argument claimed that Spain had not accepted Gen Pinochet's military coup when he seized power in 1973, that Judge Baltasar Garzon, a Spanish examining magistrate, had 'purported to act in a judicial manner' and there were 'barely concealed' political allegations made against the general.

Mr Jones added that the general's lawyers had also argued that there had not appeared to have been a proper investigation of the allegations in Spain.

Gen Pinochet, 83, who is in declining health, was arrested in London last year.

Clive Nicholls, QC, for the general made a series of submissions at yesterday's hearing. These challenged the increased number of charges; claimed that the general had immunity from extradition because of a lack of evidence; and maintained that he could not face a charge of conspiracy to torture.

Mr Nicholls explained that in March the House of Lords had rejected 29 of the original charges. Three had remained, one of torture and two of conspiracy to torture.

He claimed that Judge Garzon had then attempted to bolster his case by submitting 32 additional allegations. Mr Nicholls claimed that Gen Pinochet could face extradition only on the original three charges because the Home Secretary's authority to proceed related to them.

Mr Nicholls said that Spain had to claim that Gen Pinochet had been responsible for 'widespread and systematic' torture, but if he faced only a single charge of torture that legal test had not succeeded.

The hearing continues.
