INDIAN actor Saeed Jaffrey hit out last night after being sacked from Coronation Street. Jaffrey was hailed as the soap's answer to multi-cultural Britain when he joined only six months ago as shopkeeper Ravi Desai, head of the show's first Asian family.

But last night he asked bitterly:

“Would they have treated a British actor like this?”

Jaffrey, 70, was sacked after a series of behind-the-scenes problems. They included spending a night in police cells after a drunken row with two women on a latenight train from Euston to Manchester, and being late for filming after watching a cricket match.

His wife and agent Jennifer suggested there were other reasons for his sudden departure, adding:

“There is a lot of envy around. People think: How come an Asian actor is doing so well? I've been told there was someone at Granada out to get Saeed.

“What they have done to him is unfair. You have to ask would they have treated a British actor the

same way?” She said her husband was “upset and very disappointed” that his character was being written out so soon.

“At last Coronation Street had found a character that was popular with the Asian community. Ravi Desai was not stereotyped. He was an educated international business man not just a shop owner. He was very popular with the Asian viewers but now suddenly they have told him he's going to be written out.



'Asians will take this as a big rejection, a big snub. But not just Asian people, lots of British people who follow and love his character too.”

Producers are currently casting for a new younger male Desai family member to play the part of a cousin.

	Saeed believes being dumped has cost him work worth thousands of pounds. Jennifer added: “He was so committed to the role he has turned down lucrative advertising contracts and many other acting roles over the next few months. But he is rewarded like this.



“You can understand how he feels. We thought he would be in the show for at least a year and then

that it would be us who had the choice to leave or stay”

Confirmation of the decision came in a showdown meeting with Coronation Street's new production team who told Saeed the character would be rested indefinitely.



“Basically I think they are easing out older characters and trying to bring in new faces. But you can't replace people like Saeed who has so much experience. He has been so helpful to other cast members.”

Mr Jaffrey has starred in several television classics including Jewel in the Crown, Far Pavilions, Tandoori Nights and Gangsters, and in the cinema The Man Who Would be King, and My Beautiful Laundrette.

	He has made over 100 films in Bollywood, India's answer to

Hollywood, and recently claimed to be much accosted by teenage girls who “swoon and blow kisses and say: You are the most adorable cutie pie in the industry”.



Jennifer, who says her husband is unable to give interviews until his contract ends in October, added:

“Saeed joined amid a blaze of publicity and was a first for the programme. He generated so much interest in the show and received sacks of fan mail.

	“We asked the producers if he was going because of his drinking but they said no it wasn't.”



Mrs Jaffrey added: “Saeed is particularly concerned about the message his treatment sends out to young Asian actors. He has opened

so many doors for them in this country and, with this unexpected and inexplicable dismissal, it will look as if they are being slammed shut again.”



	A spokeswoman for the show insisted the decision was nothing to do with the actor's arrest last month or his like of a drink.

She said: “People are written out, and it is not necessarily for ever.

The Desai family are an important part of the Street and we are casting for a new member.

	“Ravi will leave Weatherfield for a reason, although we can't divulge why. He won't just go up the stairs and never come down again, but be talked about as if he is still there. And he won't be leaving any broken hearts behind.”



